Gnosticism

Gnosticism is a very interesting religion or perspective on the nature of the Self and of this Reality. One issue with this school of thought is that it is very easy to jump to conclusions on what it is, so I'll be writing this article to give my interpretation of this religion.

The first thing that I'd like to point out is there are many sects or divisions within Gnosticism, and this is very understandable because the foundation of Gnosticism is based on Experiential Knowledge. The concept being that no one should blindly believe in anything other than what they personally experience. 

There are many exercises, theories, and concepts involved in being a personal witness to the mysteries to be had. I, for one, personally believe that most of Carl Jung's work actually stemmed from Gnosticism, as in, he got the majority of his ideas from this religion. I could be wrong on that, as I've never met him or talked to him, but that is my conclusion.

In my eyes, Carl Jung's most significant practice or understanding, given its influence on many people, is Shadow Work. I see evidence to support my conclusion from the Gnostic text, which is where he came up with his ideas. However, it is possible that he simply stepped into that knowledge on his own, further cycling through the wheel of knowledge, further expressing the truth being that nothing is new under the sun.

In my eyes, the movie The Matrix is a metaphor for the religion of Gnosticism. We have Neo, who represents Christ and his desire to free humanity. The understanding of Christ is a mystery within itself—one that is revealed in layers.

Probably the most significant piece of the puzzle within Gnosticism is the idea of the Demiurge. The Demiurge is interpreted as an incompetent, or maybe I should say ignorant, creator. It is not the highest of the high, but merely a being who thinks that it is. It created the physical plane, this reality, in which Spirits, you and I, are drawn to like moths to the flame. We then become seduced, forget our true nature, and become trapped in a world of suffering.

Again, there are different sects of Gnosticism, and being able to interpret all this stuff is a personal journey into the Mystery. So, to be truly Gnostic, we cannot blindly believe in anything but must experience and be witnesses within ourselves, internally or externally, to discover who we are and the nature of this existence.

Many, I'd say the majority of those introduced to Gnosticism, believe that the Demiurge is wicked, and they then have a hatred for this entity/being and the physical reality. Because of that, their primary focus is on escape, escaping the physical reality, escaping suffering. This is very similar in a way to Hinduism's understanding of Samsara and discovering Samadhi.

Personally, I do lean towards Gnosticism. However, I find significant value in Skepticism and Doubt, having confidence and certainty in a state of complete uncertainty. To me, this is the only way not to be pulled off track in moving into the Unknown.

In my eyes, if this is, in fact, true, and of course, whatever the thinker thinks, the prover proves, it makes sense to me that the Demiurge is not all bad or even bad at all. But this whole setup is merely a game of self-discovery. Even the Demiurge is an aspect of the Self, or at the very least, our interpretation of what it is is a symbol of who we truly are.

The relationship of the Self and the Demiurge, as well as this reality, is symbiotic. Mutually beneficial. We, as all-powerful Spirits, would not choose to step into this reality if we did not find some benefit from it. 

This benefit comes in the form of discovering the truth about who we really are.

Gnosticism appears to use many concepts and ideas from the Bible. Other texts that have appeared recently, around 1940, are colloquially called "The Dead Sea Scrolls." I think one of the most impactful texts from this collection for me would have to be "The Gospel of Thomas."

When we get into this stuff, there are many ideas that we have to question, especially if we were raised as Protestant, Catholic, or Orthodox Christians. I think one of the more significant questions we must step into is the interpretation of God in the Garden of Eden, the Serpent there, the nature of Adam and Eve, the concept of Sin, Jesus, the Crucifixion, Truth, Mystery, Holy Spirit, the concept of Christ within itself, and many other ideas.

Often, it will require much unlearning and the introduction of doubt into preinstalled beliefs from childhood to even begin to step into this school of thought known as Gnosticism. 

There exist many questions, but that is the nature of Gnosticism. It is fundamentally a religion of personal experience, a witness to one's Self. 

To conclude, to think we know what Gnosticism is in totality, is to prevent ourselves from moving deeper into the Mystery.