Hinduism

I was first introduced to Hinduism in 2006. I was raised as a Protestant Christian and found much dissatisfaction with that school of thought, which I would resolve many, many years later. Having removed myself from Protestantism at the age of 16, I found myself curious in college to explore other schools of thought.

That curiosity and itch within my mind became more prevalent, and I found myself enrolling in several classes in various religions.

What I found fascinating was my intuitive approach to interpreting these texts as symbolic and metaphorical. I read books on Hindu Myths, and they gave me a very interesting interpretation: What was being spoken about was not literal but metaphorical about the nature of the Self.

I remember reading books on the concept of demons, which are not the same interpretation as demons from the Protestant and Mainstream Christian perspective. In these texts, demons were merely beings, almost human in a way. They had positive traits and negative traits, and in these texts, they were giving allegories or myths of their existence, birth, quests, how they overcame problems, and things of that nature.

At this time, I had also enrolled in yoga classes, finding myself participating in Hathic Yoga, which is physical exercise, poses, stretching, and all that. 

I know many Protestants are quite skeptical and view Yoga as malicious because the term Yoga means Union, and they automatically think that's Union with an evil entity. That concept of Union, I would not discount that. I'd just have to suggest that no matter what religion one is involved with, if their quest is to know "their" creator, this concept of Union is always at play. Whether that's in Hinduism or Protestantism or anything else. To get into all that would be a great work of length and effort.

In Hinduism, one of the fundamental understandings is that of the Atman and the Brahman. They often describe this as an egg, the yolk being the Atman, and the totality of the egg being the Brahman. It's the idea of separation in the form of an expression, but contained and always remaining a part of the whole.

Within Hinduism, the quest is often to escape Samsara, the wheel of rebirth and incarnation, and enter liberation. Maybe Samadhi would be a better term to describe this. To enter the place where one no longer suffers.

They describe 4 fundamental paths, but I'd like to share that there are subcategories within these.

Karma Yoga - that path of action and service

Bhakti Yoga - the path of devotion

Raja Yoga - the path of meditation

Jnana Yoga - the path of intellect and knowledge

So we have here the idea that one is called in a specific lifetime to fulfill one's Darhma, their duty or calling within this lifetime. These paths can be mixed, but often, one will be dominant.

So Karma Yoga, from my interpretation, has to do with one's vocation and work. They work and focus on careers, and through that process, they learn and develop. Bhakti is the path of devotion; this could be something in the physical plane or something spiritual, but that devotion, the Will to love, pushes them through challenges in this existence. Raja is that of meditations, searching within and growing from that. Jnana, to me, is the quest to absorb information, self-inquiry, reading lots of books, and all that, in a quest to understand the nature of this reality, as well as themselves.

For a long time after I took these courses in college, I thought I was Hindu because it just made sense to me. However, later in life, I'd meet and hang out with Hindus from India. In my excitement, I'd share my perspectives, only to quickly realize from our conversations that they didn't see it the way I saw it at all—far from it, to be honest. 

Fundamentally, they saw Hinduism and their religion the same way many Protestants and Mainstream Christians view their religion. They were highly focused on material existence and took these texts as literal phenomena, having no space for contemplation of other dimensions, of higher planes of existence.

I did find myself disappointed, but at the same time, very curious. Later in life, I would come to find that this is a common phenomenon and that all religions, at least the ones I have studied, have layers of understanding and interpretation.

Stepping into that awareness, I can perceive how people have different stages of development. We could even look at this as the Ego being the identity. Depending on what they identify with, how they perceive the Self will determine their interpretation of religious texts, no matter what text or religion that may be.