Judgement Day

We are judged for who we Are, not for what we have Done.

The whole thing, "Who am I???"

That search and that quest are what it is about.

Being judged is not something to fear; it's a revelation, to come into more knowledge and understanding of "Who am I?" - the ultimate Mystery.

The thing people are most afraid of is the Stroke of Death, that which is merely an orgasm. In our terms and definitions, maybe I should say, an Orgasm times a million, but an orgasm nonetheless. 

Is it scary?

Of course it is. 

Everything is scary when it's your First Time. 

But afterwards, is it still scary? 

Depends on You, but eventually, over the course of time, through more acceptance and understanding... No, not all. 

It's not scary at all.

All this stuff people are worried about. All these fears, are they even real?

Well, they can be a real experience, but is anything truly real? Is anything truly Permanent?

Nothing is Permanent outside The Truth existing in what is The Christ - that's all.

All these fears of a God bringing forth judgment, going to a place of torment called "hell," and all that. 

Could it happen? 

Of course it can, there is no limitations on what You can create. 

But is it permanent?

No... Again, Nothing is Permanent outside The Truth existing in what is The Christ - that's all.

We go through experiences to learn and to grow and discover more into the Mystery... Who am I?

All these things, attributes, and experiences are just expressions in trying to answer that question.

Learn the lesson and a negative circumstance will disappear when it no longer serves a purpose.

We are not judged for what we have done.... We are judged for who We are. 

Who we are... I think some good articles to better define that would be [[Implied Consent]], [[Solipsism]], and [[The 10 Commandments]] if you want to dive into what I am referring to.

It has to do with that which is contained within the Heart. It's not behavior, people can Lie in their behavior, but the Self is always Shining Through.

That judgement is for our benefit, not for our punishment.

Again, Nothing is Permanent outside The Truth existing in what is The Christ - that is all.

To better understand that, I wrote this [[Truth]].

What is The Christ - from my experience, no idea. It's a person of a masculine sexuality and without a name, whose sole desire is to dissolve all the Lies. Masculine in that it penetrates through the Lies.

But where did It/He come from?

It appears He has existed "before" Eternity.

At least that's what I gather from my meditations... [[Harvesting Meditation]].

How's that work? 

Just another Mystery.

I think that's kind of what all this is about, and these stories/fables, it, that which creates the stories, trying to figure that aspect out... 

How did all this happen? 

Where did all this come from?

Where is this all going?

These questions create both the past and the future.

That's why they exist, because We want to know.