Salvation and Eternal Life

This is a complicated subject because most, if not all, have been subjugated to many ideas that I would consider of the Lie and false.

Inherently, we are all "Eternal" whether we like or not. However, when it comes to the current identity, or the ego, that depends.

This idea of Salvation, from my perspective, is about being able to maintain the Ego, the self-image, into Eternity. 

In Hinduism, they talk about the Atman and the Brahman, and how the self is but a drop in the ocean of that Grand Mind, one could call God. And that in death or liberation, one dissolved back into the infinite.

This may be preferred by some individuals, and I am not here to make judgement on what it is people desire or want for themselves. However, I like being an individual, and I find benefit in the idea of Salvation by means of The Christ.

To fully comprehend this, we have to understand the Self Image. The Self Image, or the Ego, is a construct of Identity. The definition within the question, "Who am I?". These answers then form the expression of what it is we currently are. However, that existence, if based on an illusion, will be eradicated by means of what is true. A lie cannot stand in the way of what is true. What is true destroys what is a lie.

This said, how can we step into Eternity if we are currently within the scope of a lie. This is what is said by how we are within [[Sin]], and in need of a Savior - that Savior never being Jesus, but The Christ contained within Him and Us...

What is true will destroy the lies within Us. That said, if our identity is held and maintained by lies, it cannot stand for what is to come.

Is this something to fear... not necessarily. I just see it as something not desirable. Again, this is a personal decision. Some might like the Hinduism perspective of merging again with the All, that of Brahman.

Think of a dream. You sleep, you dream, you wake up, and quickly, you cannot remember the dream...

This is what it is like. It's not a big deal. I just personally think being able to continue and remember the dreams is more enjoyable and cooler, that is all. 

I prefer my Self-Image and Identity to continue to grow and expand, even into something far, far Greater than the Brahman can even or ever imagine. That is what I desire, and that is only obtainable by means of Salvation through The Christ.

This here is my understanding of Salvation by means of The Christ and what was truly being said.

It wasn't about Jesus getting stuck on a cross; that's just an event.

The Lie existing herein is that it was some sort of sacrifice and ransom to the devil, which makes absolutely no logical sense, yet so many have fallen for this and believe it to be true.

This thing being spoken about exists on a Higher Plane. And yes, maybe what Jesus did and went through was a necessary element to bring it forth into the Physical Plane, that I am not 100% certain of. 

Or maybe it was merely a symptom of a cause, which makes a lot more sense... Like it just happened as a symptom, it wasn't a necessary action but one that had to present itself to reflect what was already Present. 

A symptom of a Cause. That Cause being Spiritual in Nature.

The Christ is a being of masculine sexuality. It “Penetrates” through the Lies. It does not absorb them.

Jesus, though He had/has a relationship with The Christ - He was/is not "The Christ". 

The Christ is available to all of Us, and even Jesus readily admitted this and wanted Us to truly know this.

>Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do; because I go unto my Father. **-John 14:1**2  from the Bible

Why has it been propagated, spread, and expressed otherwise by means of the so-called "church" and this false terminology of "christianity"? 

Because they are NOT the Church, nor are they "Christian", but merely being servants of the Lie. 

See [[Christianity]] for my definition and understanding of what Christianity Truly is...

When Jesus speaks... sometimes I see Jesus talking, sometimes it is The Christ speaking through Jesus. Use discernment and personal discretion to determine the two.

I would heavily suggest that "We" are actually feminine in nature as Spirits. Spirits create, bring forth life. However, we can have male or female personas in the lower planes.

The Christ brings forth the ability to pierce through the Lies and to then reveal truth. As this unfolds, our identity expands and grows as well. We are able to comprehend more and more because what we stand within is "true" and thus lies cannot penetrate what is Contained.

This here is Salvation. It's not about escaping some horrible God, some fear of hell, some suffering, some punishment; it's about stepping into something More. 

Growing into something beyond what currently Is.

A New...

In this, "We", The Christ and You, merged into One Being, bring forth a new life, one that is Eternal.

Only those who seek will find.

See [[Harvesting Meditation]]