Solipsism

Solipsism is a perspective I began to question without knowing the term in my early 20s. Off and on, I began to question the nature of reality and what was going on. My meditation and spiritual practices appeared to create results that I could not explain at the time, as I didn't have any other theories at my disposal.

Solipsism refers to the concept that the only thing that can be known is the mind, basically one's thoughts. The whole “I think, therefore I am”, in a way, applies to this idea. 

The foundation question, and I'd say hurdle, is whether reality is merely a dream and whether the one observing that dream, which would be you if you are reading this, is actually the only thing alive and in existence. 

That all players in this reality are just NPCs(non-player characters).

I've made several attempts to discuss these matters with priests, spiritual leaders, and religious folks, even philosophers. More often than not, I've been dismissed, sometimes even cursed. I've gotten feedback that this perspective is a spiritual disease. For others, their immediate fear goes into morality, and because they lack the capacity to understand morality from my eyes, that being the nature that we reap what we sow, they tend to go into a state of fear and panic.

Another observation is that this discussion is often quickly forgotten. It's like they don't have the capacity to simply "entertain" an idea. No one has to accept an idea, and I wouldn't encourage that at all unless it benefits the person who is accepting it.

As the Thinker thinks, the Prover proves.

One of the more emotionally devastating experiences I had with this concept, which was always subtly running in the background, was when I went on a full week-long binge of meditation at a retreat, and it came up in a big, big way. 

I lacked the capacity at the time to handle it, and so I eventually successfully shoved it back down. Several more times would I have to go through this idea, which for me personally brought up significant feelings of grief, attachment, fear, and just a magnitude of very intense emotion.

I lacked the capacity to consume and digest the energy at the time; this was well before I learned about [[Harvesting Meditation]].

I'd like to throw out there my observations, having overcome it, as this is just my perspective and opinion: I sincerely believe in the nature of the paradox when it comes to existence and reality. This concept that we could have two opposing perspectives or truths going on simultaneously is difficult to grasp because it doesn't make "logical" sense. 

For all truths are but half truths, as the saying goes.

From my observation, this reality is not so solid but rather quite plastic from my experience that includes being very multidimensional and having layer upon layer, where the rules within one paradigm do not necessarily result in the same rules in another. 

I’d like to make an important point: the rules in one paradigm do not necessarily reflect those in another. 

To phrase this differently, what is true for me may or may not be true for you. 

What was true yesterday may or may not be true today.

However, I do speculate and hold faith that there is a Truth, or a series of principles that supersede all, yet to be discovered, at least for me.

I'd personally say that solipsism is a very significant perspective and a necessary one to have the capacity to step into in order to solve many problems, even very significant problems. 

In this school of thought, we have to take absolute responsibility for anything and everything in our lives. From that and certain practices, primarily [[Harvesting]], I've seen some phenomenal results in achieving what I personally find significant and important in the scope of what I desire.

That said, I would suggest that Solipsism is a tool, and as any tool, it is double-edged. 

What can be very useful can also be quite dangerous and harmful. Usually, the more useful the tool, the sharper the sword; those qualities, good and bad, are spread equally across both poles.

It depends on how it is used, the intention, and the skill. An incompetent construction worker, as an example, could very easily cut their finger off with an electrical saw.

Learning to navigate that is and can be very difficult. 

When we step into Solipsism, to benefit from it fully, I suggest we require a lot of maturity and wisdom. But often, wisdom can not be achieved without making a lot of mistakes. As they say, "He who does nothing, makes no mistakes; he who makes no mistakes, learns nothing."

Further, I think it's important never to become too certain in anything. 

Doubt and uncertainty are actually the highest road, at least in my eyes. 

The trick is to learn how to have Certainty in a state of complete and absolute Uncertainty.

That said, we can learn to hold both feet, grounded simultaneously within both realities, to navigate and learn along the way. 

What if this is all a dream and I am just making all this up, while simultaneously being open to the general consensus that material existence is all there is and individuals are 100% autonomous and have absolutely no relationship to me, or my thoughts, feelings, and all that? 

And I would say that this walk is possible. 

It is possible to walk simultaneously in both of these paradoxical realities and find truths that pertain to both, which I would suggest to be higher truths than ones that simply work in one but not the other.

Though there exist significant benefits to resolving material problems through the lens of Solipsism, it can also bring on significant hardships. Solipsism requires a high level of responsibility, and because we are ignorant of what we are ignorant of, what I refer to in my Lexicon as [[Sin]], we can find ourselves in some difficult times.

My experience has shown me that those difficult times were the result of [[Sin]] itself, not being fair to myself, and falling for things, lies and tricks, if you will, of that ignorance. The result of that is what I term [[Bleeding Out]] and we must be cautious of that. 

Solipsism is extremely useful, and many benefits can come from this school of thought, but it requires some significant open borders within the ego/identity itself, or what we could call the [[Self-Image]], which can lead to uncomfortable experiences if the proper “laws/policies” and “defenses” are not in place.

I do hold that Solipsism is a superior and necessary perception when it comes to creating results, but it is also significantly important to have that natural doubt within everything and maintain a foot in material reality. 

Walk with both feet, one in each reality simultaneously, and a lot of cool concepts and new tools can be developed, leading to better solutions and higher truths—that's my opinion. 

In the end, make up your own mind.