The Story of Job

The Bible is an interesting text. I don't want to make any claims that the stories are in fact literal. As I've studied many religious texts, I find more value in perceiving the text from a spiritual lens, which I see to be a higher plane of reality, more real than the physical plane, though existing in the form of symbols and symbolism. From my perception, the cause of all causes is spiritual, these spiritual symbols, the effects of which bleed into the physical plane.

The story of Job is an interesting text and I see many layers to this work. However, instead of writing a novel trying to explain all the concepts I can perceive and what it is showing, I'd like to share my observations on what many critics complain about in this story. I also think this is valuable to those who are "afraid" of evil, rather than "fear" their creator.

The Energy of Fear and the State of Being Afraid are very different.

Many critics laugh at this story and say, "Look what God did to Job." 

Again, I perceive many layers to this story, real or myth, and to get into all of that would be of great length and effort.

The first most important observation that I think is most useful for people out there is that "this" Satan, which from my understanding is translated to simply mean "the adversary," first goes to God and asks for permission from God to mess with Job. 

This Satan cannot mess with Job without God's permission and authorization. 

Also, as a side note, from my observation, this is actually the second book of the Bible in which Satan is even mentioned, the first being the First Chronicles. Lucifer is mentioned once throughout the whole text of the Bible. In the Old Testament, there is no mention of the Devil, merely devils, plural, which I would imply means something very different from the singular entity/being concept that is propagated in Western Culture under the name of Christianity - just a thought.

Bringing this back to my point, I would say that the above mention of this Satan needing authorization from God is fundamentally very important and significant to understand for those who are afraid of evil, or at least this concept of evil.

In many other religious texts, they share this concept or idea that God only tests those he actually believes in. If God does not trust the individual, does not believe in their capacity to handle it, he will not put them through trials and tribulations. 

Trials and Tribulations are a necessary element for an individual to go through in the process of stepping into higher and higher forms of Truth. We have highs and lows, its is only in the expansion of the high AND the low, can awareness grow.

So with that shared, we can start to see that this "relationship" is not 100% bad. Maybe uncomfortable, but not bad in the traditional sense. It would depend on the interpretation of the individual and their level of development to truly be capable of making a decision on that.

We see Job is praised for never cursing his creator. 

There's a lot more I could go into on this, again, when we read these texts, I think it's best that we as individuals interpret them from our own understanding of reality and our own individualism and what that means to us in our current stage of development.

We can see towards the end, how once everything is finished/completed, his stock of material goods is amplified at an exponential rate. 

But why is that? 

Did God "do" that, or was it simply a byproduct of Job's essence after this transformation?

You decide.

