The Christ and The Anti-Christ

This is a very interesting topic and something I've dove into unintentionally over the many years.

It appears that The Christ and The Anti-Christ are the same thing in a way, but not.

I'd suggest they are two sides of a pole. 

Deeper still, a polarity - a necessary element for the Creation Process.

Think of a string of pearls.

In my experience, on the Left side are the white pearls, and at the top of that string, exists The Christ. On the other side are black pearls, and at the top of that side of the string is the Anti-Christ.

But it's not as simple to understand because we have been propagandized with all these ideas and concepts that are not based in true reality. So we must unlearn that which we have learned for a higher Truth to be revealed.

Like is The Christ and the Anti-Christ in opposition?

Yes and No.

An Adversary is necessary for growth and evolution to occur.

And I think to more define what it is, we could categorize beliefs into four categories.

Beautiful Truths
Beautiful Lies
Ugly Truths
Ugly Lies

Which is contained within each side of the coin, the string of pearls?

I would suggest that is determined by You and Your decisions in Your reality and experience, as well as in Mine when it comes to My reality and My Experience.

As far as the Pearls and You are concerned, You exist somewhere within the String of Pearls, the voices coming in dependent on the Lies You have bought into.

The goal is to be in the middle with nothing in between the Two.

To better comprehend this String of Pearls. It appears that each pearl is like a persona, a personality, within itself. And they kind of fight for power or authority, for "their" voice to be heard. They all want their voice to be Heard, they use manipulation to accomplish that. 

The Christ does not use manipulation, ever! 

You don’t have to do anything you don’t want to do, ever. 

The Christ does not want you to do anything you do not want to do, ever.

Anything suggesting otherwise stems from the Lie.

And overall, it's a game of telephone for the most part. 

The ones at the top of each string have It, whatever that is, and communicate That.

Through the string, it gets polluted. These are what are in the way of Us having access to The Christ. 

It's the Lies contained within and between Us and Them. 

That’s what is getting in the way. 

That’s Our fault, not theirs or Theirs.

Even the Saints themselves are obstacles that need to be overcome. Self-righteous and obnoxious, and though perhaps honest, they still want their voices heard more than that of The Christ. That is based on our attachments and aversions to those other "Voices". They will use Guilt and Shame to be heard, as well as Fear.

The goal is to stop listening to those Voices that wish to manipulate us negatively(guilt, shame, fear) or positively(flattery, approval, "love")...

This includes "Our" own voice - it will too get in the way if You let it.

>“If anyone comes to me and does not hate father and mother, wife and children, brothers and sisters—yes, even their own life—such a person cannot be my disciple." **Luke 14:26** - from the Bible

The Christ is both the Loudest voice and the most Quiet voice in the Universe.

To hear it, you have to get incredibly silent, beyond silent, and eradicate all other voices in the way by ridding Oneself of fear and attachment, the Lies.

Only those who seek will find.

Collect the Charge and Consume and Digest that Daily Bread... [[Harvesting Meditation]]

Is Jesus the same thing as The Christ? 

Absolutely not. 

Though I suggest He had/has a relationship with The Christ.

But even He, Jesus, will get in the way if You let Him.