The Truth Will Set You Free

I’ve speculated on this Bible verse for so many years of my life. Trying to comprehend what it was saying behind my instinctual hunches and mainstream rhetoric. Here, Jesus spoke of truth and this concept of freedom.

>31 Then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him, If ye continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed; 32 And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.
>
>**John 8:31-32** from the Bible

What is this Truth?

Free from what?

These are valid questions.

I’ve witnessed through the years how the word freedom is such a compelling concept, yet nebulous. 

What exactly is freedom?

Many have come in an attempt to define freedom. Some suggest that it is the ability to have more choices and options. Some suggest that it is to overcome restrictions and limitations. Though these definitions may hold merit, I will now make my own attempt to interpret and communicate my interpretation of what was said so long ago.

First, let us look into truth and its concept. I would suggest that truth is the absence of a lie. 

But what is the lie that can only be remedied by truth?

That would be the ones we tell ourselves, for the most pernicious of lies are the ones we tell ourselves because we sincerely believe in them.

Because we believe and hold faith and trust in lies, we cannot see the truth, we cannot see the way out.

I would suggest this lie is all-encompassing, surrounding us like the water that the fish swims in that of the ocean. Not only are the lies our home, but we cannot fathom existence outside of that home.

The truth will set us free?

Yet again, I ask, from what?

I can only conclude that the answer to that question exists in freedom from manipulation. 

Because we are emotionally invested in lies that are not true, we are guilt-tripped, shamed, and scared into doing things that we do not want to do.

I mention guilt, shame, and fear and find it both extremely concerning and then other days laughable, depending on what mood I am in, that these very things that I interpret Jesus’s teaching to be against are what it appears are actually promoted in what I term “mainstream Christianity.” 

This is my interpretation, make up your own mind.

We exist in bondage, in a form of slavery, being pushed and pulled to adhere to the will of some outside force. Or perhaps that manipulation is merely something internally installed, by choice, for another purpose. That I have yet to determine.

Some would speculate that this outside force is Satan or the devil or its many names that exist within a variety of text.

I would simply label it the Deceiver, or maybe the Manipulator.

Whether it is, in fact, an external entity or merely a construct of our own imagination, I cannot be absolutely certain. The only thing I can be confident in standing on is that there is an element in place that manipulates mankind - its tool is that of lies.

In my meditations through the practice of [[Harvesting Meditation|Harvesting]], I’ve been able to witness many of these lies, yet there are always more to discover. 

In my experience, it appears that the lie is often in the form of the perversion of a truth, a twisted truth that has been flipped upside down, inverted.

When I think back on my study of logic, they would mention how a premise leads to a conclusion, but the conclusion does not necessarily lead to the premise.

For example.

All dogs are mammals.
All mammals are dogs.

We see here how the top one is correct, all dogs are mammals, yet the bottom one is false, because not all mammals are dogs.

In my meditations, it’s only in the process of becoming very quiet that I can hear the lies and then unravel them within myself so that my life can improve. I would suggest that this is not an easy feat, and it has taken me many years to have these types of experiences where I actually witness a phenomenon of this magnitude.

At the same time, becoming a witness to this phenomenon can evoke quite a significant level of fear to arise and come up - what is that lie that was spoken, and where did it come from? 

Then, through the process of reflection, I can see how this concept, this lie, had ruled over my existence up to that point. Triggering me - subconscious and unconscious reactions to life's circumstances or failures to be proactive.

I suggested above about how this practice can, at times, evoke a significant level of fear. However, I do not want to equate fear with being afraid. Fear is merely an energy, an energy that I have come to interpret as Divine and Holy. 

It is the lies we still hold to be true that hijack this energy to be processed into thoughts and ideas that then make us feel and behave afraid. I’ve found that only by being present and consuming and digesting this fear can I discover a truth behind it, one that then defeats the lie.

Courageousness is the ability to stand in the presence of fear yet remain unafraid.