Center of the Cyclone by John C. Lilly

I read this book in 2006, when I was investigating alternative schools of thought, new ideas, and anything that was outside of my present identity.

Center of the Cyclone is a work by John C. Lilly. 

Lilly was a scientist, academic, and psychonaut. He's primarily known for his work in alternate states of consciousness, his work with dolphins, and his invention of the Sensory Deprivation Tank, also known as the Float Tank.

There's a lot to his work, and it's very interesting. Some of the concepts I don't necessarily agree with. One of the main concepts that comes up is that of ECCO. ECCO was this acronym for Earth Coincident Control Office, and it held the belief that there were these outside entities that influenced us humans and played a significant role in synchronicity. 

That may exist in "a" reality, but I do not believe it exists in "the" reality. Personally, I have other ways of understanding this phenomenon. However, I do not want to discount Lilly’s experience as unreal. I’d just say it’s real in “a” version of reality, the one he was in.

What I mean by that goes into the concept of what the thinker thinks, the prover proves. Nonetheless, I found it interesting to think about and speculate on this concept and phenomenon.

This work contains many interesting details about his life. From my understanding, he was a major player in the psychedelic realm and made significant contributions to this work. There's so much to go into within the scope of his work that it would be extensively exhausting. 

Center of the Cyclone is merely a brief overview of his life, a basic autobiography.

Personally, I found him to be quite an influence on me personally, and he played a significant role in my path. 

From this book, I became obsessed with the idea of obtaining a float tank. Later in life, I would hear of Joe Rogan owning one, and I would then discover you could rent one.

I did that for a while, renting time in the tank. Eventually, I would get my own place and invest in a tank of my own, that being from the company Samadhi. 

I also spent some time with the Float Tank community, going to a conference in Portland, Oregon, where I had a great time. Met and hung out with the founders/owners of Samadhi there as well, which was cool.

I owned my float tank for several years and found it to be a great tool for discovering higher levels of meditation. Eventually, after witnessing them, I'd learn to replicate those states without the need for the tank. 

I don't think the tank is necessary for these deeper states, just a crutch and helps to bring one into witnessing them. From there, one knows it is possible and can work towards achieving those states without the need for a tank.

Eventually I did sell the tank because I no longer found a benefit from it, and the hassle of having to take a shower before and after the use of the tank, and then the time and energy required to maintain the tank - though not that much effort, it just wasn't worth it to me after several years of use. I had to move on.

I've had many experiences that relate to the experiences of John C. Lilly and can testify that many of the things he has said and spoken about are, in fact, true - from my own experiences. 

Very relatable guy in my eyes.


