It by Stephen King

This was a book I read before the most recent version of the movie came out. It was kind of a "I'm going to read it because I have an aversion to it" type book. I wanted to read the book simply because I was uncomfortable with the idea of reading it.

I know as a small child I had a significant fear of clowns. I speculate that it may have arrived from the first rendition of the movie, but not certain. When I read the book, I was very surprised to find that it wasn't much about clowns at all.

The premise of the book is based on an alien life form that molds and transforms itself into whatever is needed to evoke fear in the children of the book. it comes out every several years, feeds, and then goes back into hibernation.

I resonated with this concept a lot because in my Meditations I have had similar experiences in my younger days. This phenomenon of a great fear being evoked, something not of this world. Things would play out, and they played out the way they played out. Ultimately for my benefit, though uncomfortable at the time.

So this book and that basic idea, I saw it as very realistic, though I understand this is a work of fiction. Still to this day, I believe that there are forces or elements existing outside this dimension that do indeed feed off negative energy. 

Some refer to this as Loosh.

I'd say the primary feeding is from the energy of Shame, Guilt, and Fear. 

Most, I suspect, are slaves unknowingly to these forces. This is the root cause for manipulation after all. 

Hard, if not impossible, to be manipulated if you are no longer controlled by Shame, Guilt, and Fear.

Eckhart Tolle's work refers to the Pain Body in his book Power of Now to suggest this nature in what I think is the same thing he is talking about. Another book, Reality Surfing by Vadim Zeland refers to this phenomenon as the Pendulum.

Whatever the case may be or how it is interpreted, this concept in this work of fiction and how it played out was quite entertaining. It is a very long book but so well written and enjoyable that I finished it within 3 days. 

Definitely a page turner.