People of the Lie by M. Scott Peck, M.D.

People of the Lie by M. Scott Pack, M.D. is an interesting text. Overall, I enjoyed the book, a lot of food for thought, however, some aspects of the book I disagreed with.

I do hold that this book would be quite useful for people in the people helping space, therapist, coaches, and even psychiatrist. Also, I think it would be useful for those who are somewhat naive, with a sense of innocence of the world and its people. And then, even to dive deeper, the opposite, those who are prejudice or scornful of the nature of humanity and perceive themselves to be victims in some form of fashion.

To break it down, it starts off with identifying evil in the scope of humanity. First in the family dynamic, then individuals, then in the religious circles, then in the group/society spectrum.

Though spoken of on many occasions, and phrased differently, a quote for his definition of evil goes as follows...

>Evil, then, for the moment, is that force, residing either inside or outside of human beings, that seeks to kill life or liveliness. And goodness is its opposite. Goodness is that which promotes live and liveliness. M. Scott Peck . People of the Lie: The Hope for Healing Human Evil (p. 40). (Function). Kindle Edition. 

He goes on to describe how Evil is Live spelled backwards.

I could go into all that stuff, but I'd rather just share my thoughts that came up as I read through this text.

I think fundamentally we have to take into consideration that the nature of Evil is based on that of a lie, or of lies. And the title itself really emphasizes this.

However, in my life and observations, I think it's very important to comprehend the nature of evil within the scope of this existence.

I think in a large extent of the cases, the people, etc., that are described within the this book, their symptom of evil is the byproduct and unconscious desire to live within a Lie.

I think of the Maxim, "Let he who wishes to be deceived, be deceived."

And I think this is the significant objection or criticism that I have towards this book. I think it was well written, and it was good to describe the symptoms of various people and organizations, defining what evil is, giving examples, but when it comes to a solution, I personally am not as idealistic as the author.

From my observation, often the most evil of people are so far gone, they are simply incapable of change. Though he does express this same thought throughout the text, I don't know for certain if he truly believes it. I say that because I get this hint that he really does believe there is a way to help humanity, to change people as whole and on a mass scale. Personally, I have significant doubts on that.

I can't help but remember a phrase from an old mentor of mine many, many years ago.

"The most pernicious of lies are the ones we tell ourselves because it is we that believe them."

I think one of the most horrific of lies is in the idealism of something that is not, nor ever can be, real. A sensitive topic, but I often think of those who are in a relationship with someone who is evil, one who stands on the lie. 

In idealism, they desire so badly for it not to be true, desirous that they can experience true love from the other, that they will fail to ever see or comprehend it, no matter how much suffering it inflicts on them chasing this elusive dream. 

They simply can't accept that the one they idealize simply lacks the capacity to love at all. Though they are a victim of evil, and evil being in the form of a lie, they too participate in that evil by believing and holding to their own lie.

It is sad, but so often, this happens.

Towards the end, he talks about solutions. In my experience however, education, therapy, reading, and what have you, none of it can "fix" the problem. The only thing that can fix the problem, is when the individual is ready and willing to move out of their self-created hell. 

Often, if not always, this requires hitting what most refer to as "Rock Bottom".

In my observations, that is the only way. 

No one can do it for anyone else, and as controversial as it may be to say this, this is true for even Jesus in the interpretation offered by what I call mainstream Christianity - that being this idea of a sacrifice could save them from themselves or simply as a ransom to the devil to keep them out of hell. To fully explain my understanding of Jesus, what he was trying to say and promote, would take more effort and work than this book review - that said, I’ll return to that topic another time.

Basically, people have to go through what they have to go through - and there are many levels to this understanding and the reasons for it all.

In the end of the book he describes the combating of evil, not through force, but through love. He mentions some things on truth. Overall, I think he's on to something, but I don't personally think he was able to articulate it well enough for anyone to fully comprehend.

When it comes to the nature of evil, I think it's quite common for people to aspire to "defeat" or "conquer" evil through force of will, combating that nature. I would suggest this to be quite ignorant and quite naive, and fundamentally dangerous and worthless, and act of evil within itself. From my interpretation, he alludes to this to some degree, but I don't see it spoken bluntly and in a clear format to not be misinterpreted if that is what he was trying to say. 

To really hone in on this point I'm attempting to make, I share one of my phrases, “To consent to war is to consent to war.” 

That includes when it comes to this nature we call [[Evil]].

He goes on about how "Love" is the way to defeat evil, and this is where I have some issues. 

The only thing that can truly defeat Evil is Truth, not Love. What I find somewhat disconcerting about this is it's right in the title of the book, " People of the Lie". 

Again, this might simply be my interpretation of the last part of the book, and he does mention this aspect of truth. But from my interpretation, he's suggesting that Love is the answer to overcoming evil.

I would suggest something different: it is only through Love that we can move on the path towards higher and higher forms of Truth, to then defeat the Lie within ourselves, that Lie being that which is the foundation of Evil itself.

As Jesus spoke in his teachings, 

>"You will know the truth, and the truth will set you free." 
>**-John 8:32** from the Bible

Again, I'd say that it is worth the read, regardless of my minor disagreements. It will provide something to think about and some things to consider when operating within the scope of this reality and its people, and maybe even more so when it comes to living within ourselves.