Propaganda by Edward Bernays

I read this book for the first time as a freshmen in college, in the year 2004. I was introduced to this concept from a documentary on YouTube called "The Century of the Self" which is quite interesting and one that I recommend people watch.

I've read and reread it multiple times. It is a short book but I found it very insightful.

The basic premise of the book is of Edward Bernays and his work as a public relations machine. He actually created the term Public Relations because he needed to invent a new word for his work, as the term Propaganda put a bad taste in the mouths of the majority.

It's an interesting book in that is kind of shows a more hidden, and perhaps darker aspect to the nature of society in general, and the element that we humans play within that organism.

By reading this book, I got a deeper and more insightful understanding of human nature and more awareness of behaviors and techniques in media.

I remember as a young child thinking I could do a better job in the area of propaganda, constructing better narratives than the one's that were fed to me. However, after reading this book, I saw how systematic approaches are often much safer. What worked in the past, is often likely to work in the present, and the need to take substantial risk are lowered. Also, how the need to reinvent the wheel is not that necessary. 

My conclusions at this time on Edward Bernays and his work is that overall, I think his work was good because of the necessity needed for things to evolve the way they evolved. Many look down on Edward Bernays and see him as evil and his work as wicked. But I would suggest that from that time, to where we are now, the world is a better place.

His work was used primarily, from my perspective, to increase the motivation of humanity towards consumerism. This then sped up the wheel of energy, known as commerce. We in the Western Civilizations, through the bait of materialism and looking better than our neighbor, are now in a more abundant reality overall. 

That has since spilled into other countries and cultures.

Do I agree with it now? Do I agree that these types of practices are necessary and should continue indefinitely?

No, not at this time. 

I think they played their role. 

We are better off because of Edward Bernays and his work. But that wheel has turned and we will need to look towards other goals and endeavors if we are to continue to evolve.

Materialism and Consumerism will no longer sustain us.

Instead, it will destroy us.

We were starving back then - we are now fat and need a diet.

I think one of the best lessons or insights from this book offered by Edward Bernays is to never criticize your competition. Reason being, the criticism often only leads to your market losing faith in the whole industry, including yours. This has been a hard lesson to learn and even more so to practice and be vigilant with. Our customers are not a 1 sided group, they will buy from anyone they think will improve their quality of life. To criticize the competition will only lead to people giving up on the concepts, services, tools, or what have you that your industry provides.