Astral Projection  

The idea of astral projection seems to be of interest in many people existing today. The idea of leaving the body and having experiences outside that body. I've heard of people being able to travel the physical plane and observe people and events, and then come back and find evidence that it was, in fact, real. 

I personally have never had the desire to explore the physical plane, that being this reality. However, I have experienced witnessing and exploring other aspects of existence. Whether these states are merely inventions of my imagination, a dream-like state, or something truly existing, I don't know and cannot prove. Here I will describe some of my experiences and some of the techniques I have used to evoke this capacity.

I believe I was around the age of 21 when I first began to experience this. I know for probably a period of 6 months, I used to participate in this a minimum of once a week around the age of 30. To me, I do find it interesting, often bizarre, but I've never really obtained anything that I would think anyone would find significant from this practice.

The method I used at 21; I'd lay down and get very relaxed. The goal is to put the body to sleep yet stay mentally awake. This is fundamentally sleep paralysis. 

Sleep paralysis can be quite frightening to be imagined initially. For me, I dealt with this phenomenon from time to time before I got into astral projection or even knew what astral projection was. When sleep paralysis took place, I learned that I could come back to by moving my toes. Wiggling my toes would get me back in and I'd wake up. That's often the most common approach I use to come out if I find myself stuck.

Later in life, I'd acquire a recliner and find that to be much more effective than laying down. Easier to enter into sleep paralysis and not completely pass out. 45 degrees reclined. Just enough that the body can be relaxed but high enough to assist in staying mentally awake.

So back in 2006, when I began exploring this, my technique was to go into sleep paralysis by relaxing my body and my mind, but staying awake. Eventually, it would hit. Next, I would imagine two great crowbars coming into the side of my ribs and pulling me out of the body. Then, the astral projection would commence.

Later on, I learned that I could do it without that, merely by rotating my hands of the astral body, facing my palms up.

For many years, the astral plane was the only reality I was able to explore. Here, I'd still have a body and walk around and interact with beings that look like normal humans. Whether those beings are real or just in my imagination, I have no idea. 

Later in my life, I'd say after the age of 35, I developed the capacity to go into what I'd refer to as the Spiritual Plane from this practice consistently. At this time, that's primarily where I go when and if I find myself being called to participate in this. It's not something I necessarily desire anymore, but every once in a while, I'll get this craving or calling that I need to participate in it.

The spiritual plane, from my experience, is very different and alien to this reality or even what can be imagined, non-physical. I'd say every time, there is no body at all. I am merely a sphere. A lot of symbolism is often expressed in this plane. For me, many times I see things that seem to relate to DNA and chromosomes and things like that. Other times, crystal-like structures, not the rock, but I mean like crystal/matrix-like structures. Imagine grid like structures based on points of material, maybe balls of cloud-like substance. Entities and beings exist there as well, but not anything related to the physical plane, maybe a being that is simply a red sphere of light, or perhaps a being that is flowing rainbow taurus(the donut shape, not the cow), other times, merely statue-like structure/beings. Lessons are learned for sure, but not necessarily directly, more through introspection and questioning what it might possibly be or mean.

Usually, for my experiences in the astral plane, I exit the body, go up, hit the ceiling, bounce off the ceiling, and shoot back down, through my body, and then into the ground. Once in the ground, there is then a void, pitch black darkness, where I fall and fall. Wind overcomes my body as if I am falling in air. That can last 20 seconds to maybe 5 minutes, sometimes, it seems like a long time, miles and miles of falling. Then I slow down and eventually land. From there, I walk around. I've seen cities with rivers running through them, people on park benches, and I've seen houses and single building structures as well. I've been inside mazes. All sorts of strange stuff.

Spiritual plane, I exit the body, go up, go through the ceiling, shoot at a very rapid acceleration. It's similar to falling in that I can fill the wind and all that, but I'm moving up. Again, these experiences can be quite strange, quite often emotionally disturbing in the process. Which I then harvest on the emotion to get anything out of it that might be available.

Personally, I can't say my life is better in any materially objective way because of these experiences and practices. It's interesting, and I guess it has helped play a part in alleviating the fear of death and opening myself up to more possibilities of what I might be. It's interesting, but I would not suggest that it will solve any specific problems or is necessary outside those who just feel called to participate in it. 

Those who desire, go for it. I am not here to suggest that anyone is missing out on anything by not doing it. 

Do or Not Do, that is a personal preference.