Basic Theory of Meditation  

Meditation is a subject matter that has moved into the mainstream. Many seek now for answers to problems through this idea of meditation. At the same time, many of these individuals have questions as to how to meditate and what is the purpose of meditation. Here, I will attempt to provide answers to the how and purpose of meditation from my perspective, perception, and experiences.

First, we must realize that meditation is merely exercise or practice in using awareness or states of consciousness. There are many types of meditation and each serve different purposes, desiring to achieve different goals.

Some wish to increase their capacity within the scope of the imagination. While others wish to develop the ability to leave the body and explore, or at least experience, other realities outside the normal physical plane. At the same time, there are those that wish to mitigate suffering and bring about calmer states of mind, less stress. And then there are those that wish to access more intuition and flow states, in which they allow a force, or a higher form of consciousness to flow through them as if almost watching a movie. Many more exists as well.

When it comes to the answer to what is meditation, and how to meditate, and the purpose there of, we must first define the current problem we are attempting to overcome. This could be the desire to move away from a negative circumstance or to move into a positive and desired circumstance.

What are you trying to achieve? 

When we answer that question, we can then search for the practice, the exercises that will develop that mental muscle, to build those neuron connections necessary within the brain to build the nervous system to allow us to move more and more into the capacity to achieve that specific and desired goal.

The different forms of meditation, from my observation, are countless. You have different categories, and within those categories are subcategories.

The list goes on and on.

Define the problem, then after that is accomplished, step into the solution.
