Full Body Awareness  

This is another meditation that I think is pretty cool. It’s where you place the awareness and the [[Will]] throughout the physical body. It can take a practice, and to maintain for longer periods of time without interruption, I would suggest Harvesting to be a good place to start.

The concept is to simply be consciously aware of the physical body in its totality. This means awareness of the top of the head, all the way down to the toes, and the torso and arms.

This can be quite a relaxing experience.

However, the internal dialogue can strike up and often does starting out. This will pull one away from body presence and awareness to thoughts and imagination.

My comprehension on this is that what the awareness is addicted to or drawn to will become the primary focus. Internal chatter is a great seducer for us as the observer; when it fires, the observer will then become entranced, hypnotized.

I’m convinced the internal chatter gets fired up through a clutch somewhere in the emotional centers of the body. This is then the energy that generates the internal dialogue and imagination/memories/fantasy. 

So for that, I recommend [[Harvesting]] to open the flow and mitigate the internal dialogue and unwanted imagination - more concerning is worry or concern about the past or future.

For more information on Harvesting, see my [[Harvesting Meditation]] article.

There’s a time for thinking and imagining, but I would suggest we do not want to be seduced by it, to be manipulated by it.

That’s basically it. 

Staying aware of the physical body in totality. 

If this cannot be achieved, simply be aware of a single aspect of the body. Maybe the relaxation of the scalp/top of the head. Then maybe the eyebrows. Then maybe the tip of the nose, relax that as well. Then maybe the toes, relax those. Then maybe the whole head and then the toes too, relaxing them both simultaneously.

I'd suggest that any tension in the body, scalp, eyebrows, toes, etc., is a form of a [[Clutch]] and that is what generates the internal dialogue and imagination.

In my experience, starting from the top of the scalp and the toes and then moving into the center of the body is the easiest approach.

Then, from there, see how long you can stay before being pulled out.

The goal, which probably will take time and practice, is to cultivate the ability to be aware of the physical body in its totality. Then, to see how long one can stay in such a state of awareness. Again, practice makes perfect.