Going Up The Chain  

Going Up The Chain is an exercise I developed to discover limitations and make corrections to improve circumstances and the quality of one's existence.

The basic idea is that we exists in [[Sin]]. This is both a positive and negative process, but I'd say the overall, big picture, phenomenon that is going on is fundamentally good and useful.

Understanding this, I'd suggest we have to first look into the nature of the mind. It is my perspective that the mind is a biological computer and works as such. 

We have if/else statements, variables and all that, within. This then is cultivated into the identity, the [[Self-Image]].

What worked and served a purpose yesterday does not necessarily work and serve a purpose today.

What was true yesterday is not necessarily true today.

Yesterday's solution is often today's problem.

This is the nature of existence and the path.

Our nature and understanding are built upon assumptions and presumptions, which make up conclusions. This is how it is. I would suggest that none of this is 100% absolute truth, as I use Robert Anton Wilson's phrase, "What the Thinker thinks, the Prover proves."

The mind, being a biological computer, there exists programs. I'd suggest that it is built much in the format of Object Oriented Programming. We have classes, methods, programs and all that. Fundamentally, there exists, programs within programs.

For one program to exists, it must feed of a program existing prior. This is all good and very useful to our experience and existence, until it is not.

When circumstances are not ideal, what we can then do is "Go Up The Chain" to discover the program that is causing the hardship. Again, what was good yesterday, may not necessarily be good today. Yesterday's solution is today's problem.

The method for doing this is to look at the circumstance that is creating hardship or suffering. The suffering is brought forth by the meaning we give it. 

"This happened and this means this and I don't like it."

To do this process, we simply ask, "What must be true before this(the current problem) can be true?"

The mind will naturally spit out an answer.

We ask then, "Well, if that is true, what must be true before that?"

And again, we go up the chain.

And we do this as many times as necessary to get to the root cause, which we will discover to be a fallacy and inaccurate. That program will then dissolve, and with it, our reaction, and more often than not, the circumstance will disappear as well. Take it for checking, and see for yourself. Don't believe anything I say off blind faith.

Things to be watchful for is primarily attempting to go up the chain, but actually searching and stating a symptom of the cause currently stated. 

When we state a symptom of the cause, we are going down the chain. Instead we want to move into the cause of the cause, which is going up the chain.

I'll try to give an example of this to the best of my abilities.

"People don't like me." Instead of going up the chain, they go down, by stating, "Because I am ugly".

An example of going up the chain, of course this is an idividual process and what is true for me may or may not be true for you. You'll have to do it on your own.

"People don't like me".

What must be true for that to be true?

"I'm not worth liking."

What must be true for that to be true?

"I'm not worthy to be liked."

What must be true for that to be true?

"I was created to be disliked."

What must be true for that to be true?

"God created me to be disliked."

What must be true for that to be true?

"God's insecure and incompetent."

What must be true for that to be true?

"There's a God greater than the God that created me."

What must be true for that to be true?

"That God must love his creation, as well as his creation's creation, therefore I am worthy to be liked."

That's kind of an example, making an attempt here to show how it's done.

In my experience, doing this within myself, as well as assisting others, more often than not, the issue always goes back, in some form, to the relationship with one's creator.

To express it differently, the problem exists in some form of ignorance in the Spiritual Plane. When that is resolved, usually, the symptom of that cause is no longer relevant, no longer serves a purpose, and doesn't have to play out. It's pointless to play out, so it simply disappears.

For a higher level practice, I'd combine [[Harvesting Meditation]] with Going Up The Chain. 

Go up the chain, collect the [[Charge]], then Harvest the Charge.
