Saying Hey Along The Way  

This is an exercise I developed in my early 20's when I had a desire to be more social.

The exercise is to say hey to randoms when doing day to day errands, or to do an all out blitz by going to a heavily populated area.

The exercise is to merely raise the hand, as if saying hey to someone. For example, waving to someone in a subtle way. Then to say "hey", "good afternoon", or something along those lines.

So you walk around, when you see people, you lift the hand in a subtle fashion, speak your greeting and continue walking until you see the next one. There is no attachment or desire to progress more than that in the interaction. Hey and move on.

This can be done at grocery stores, the bank, a mall, a fair, a community event, whatever.

That is the first stage of the exercise, to simply perform the action.

The second phase of the exercise is actually more important but is an internal process.

The goal of the second phase is to see getting a positive response or a negative response as equal in value and to be unmoved emotionally from either response.

If one says hey back, we could see this as a positive response.

If one ignores you, we could see this as a negative response.

The goal is to see both responses as equal in value.

To fully accomplish this I'd recommend my [[Harvesting Meditation]].

To not be elevated in emotions if there is a positive response, nor diminished if there is a negative response.

The total outcome of this exercise, the main and primary goal, is to develop the capacity to be social for the sake of being social. Others may interpret this as being unattached to the outcome, yet committed to the process.

Benefits of this exercise:

If you accomplish this state, what naturally occurs is a place of no concern and no effort in being social. If you see someone you are interested in talking to, you'll naturally find yourself talking to them without having to plan or think about it. You'll just find yourself doing it automatically.

If you stop doing this exercise, naturally the normal tendency to procrastinate socially will return, but in a less constricted way. Everytime you reinstate this exercise, the faster it is to get back into that flow state where socializing is just a natural phenomenon.

I think back on Bruce Lee's quote, paraphrasing here, "Freedom is when one is no longer concerned about what impression they are making or about to make."

That's pretty much the goal - to stop thinking so much and to stop being so attached to each and every social encounter.