Birds of a Feather  

Birds of a feather flock together.

Show me who your friends are, and I will show you who you are.

You are the average of your 5 closest friends: income, happiness, weight, relationship status, health, etc.

These are some concepts, proverbs, etc., that describe this concept.

I find this to be a significant piece of the puzzle of understanding our predicaments. Often, our greatest problems and struggles in life stem from our relationships.

We are only drawn to our peers. We are not emotionally pushed and pulled in a way that is desirable by people who are not at our level. If we are too far above or too far below them, we will find them too uncomfortable to be around or simply too boring, or the reality itself will simply dictate that we cannot be together.

This can be seen in concepts like synchronicity, the intuitive and seemingly magical aspect of coincidences that lead to our interactions or lack thereof.

As I say this, this phenomenon is both a positive and a negative experience.

When it comes to this aspect, we say birds of a feather flock together. However, from another perspective, we can perceive that there are [[Two Sides - One Coin|two sides to every coin]].

This gets into the Yin and Yang phenomenon.

In the scope of relationships, healthy people do not mix with unhealthy people.

This contrast plays a role in the development of individuals.

We can only perceive the reality and the other through our own eyes and interpret those people based on our own perception.

This can be seen in the scope of narcissist and codependent relationships, as well as enabled and enabler relationships.

The boundary issues will be prevalent in both parties. 

Often, I have seen individuals who claim that their partner is a narcissist are also narcissists in the scope of other relationships. 

The phenomenon is there, yet they do no see it. 

Like attracts like...

There is no escaping this.

The complainer projects onto the other individual in their romantic relationship, but the complainer's own attitudes and behaviors cannot be seen in their platonic relationships when they express the same behaviors they are complaining about, possibly not in action, but merely in their Heart. 

This is expressed in the work of Carl Jung, Shadow Work.

This is the path of development and progression.

Why do we stay in unhealthy or unproductive relationships?

Because there exists a payoff. 

There is always a payoff, and I suggest that payoff occurs on a higher plane of existence. 

Only when that is resolved does the relationship change or come to an end.

Until it is resolved in this higher plane, the theme of this conflict must prevail. It will continue in new relationships or show up in current relationships.

Our problems follow us until they no longer serve us and no longer have a payoff.

What is the payoff?

"What we resist, not only persist, but grows." -Carl Jung.

Would you like to resolve it in this higher plane? Check out my piece on [[Harvesting Meditation]].