Compare and Contrast

One of the biggest hindrances towards self-expression, and that includes the results we obtain, is that of comparing and contrasting ourselves to others.

This desire, "How am I doing compared to others?" is a trap of infinite proportions. Simply by asking the question within itself, the trap opens, and so it is... We fall within self-doubt, self-criticism, we have thoughts that we might fail, we have fears of embarrassment, and all these other things that are nonsensical and serve absolutely no purpose.

As it has been said, "He who does nothing, makes no mistakes; He who makes no mistakes, Learns NOTHING!"

And this compare and contrast is a good way to get hung up, like a 40-mile deep car traffic stop hung up. 

We can't afford to be asking ourselves this question, "How am I doing?" or "How do I compare to others?"

Complete waste of time. Even if you are doing 100x better than anyone in existence, simply asking that question will keep you from reaching your full potential and will drag you back down into what I guess we could call the pits of hell.

In this case, that place of stomach churning fear of embarrassment, this self-doubt that you think you'll lose absolutely all control over just basic functions of existence, like I'm talking about that "True" fear.

How do we stop ourselves from asking that question?

I think just a basic understanding of how damaging it is would be useful.

The other thing to take into consideration is that we don't really know what's going on "out there". You can't with 100% certainty prove I exist, and I can't prove to myself that you exist. It's impossible. We can only assume and choose to believe. Still an assumption though.

For me, I have to remind myself of what is important, in that, my expression and my quest for Truth, that is what is important, that is what is real, that is what is significant to me. That's what gives my "Life" meaning.

Comparing and Contrasting do not add Meaning to my life; they take Meaning away from my Life.

With that, I focus on what "I" prefer and not what others "might" prefer in some alternate reality that I will never be able to prove its existence. 

The comparing and contrasting is fundamentally just another Lie to keep us in bondage.