Diet  

There's a lot of speculation on diet, the nature of food and nutrients, and all that. I observe how this science and these conclusions seem to constantly change. One day, this particular style of eating is considered healthy and optimal, and the next day, it is not.

However, that's not really what I want to discuss—ingredients or the nature of eating. Rather, I'd like to discuss the effects of diet on personality as a result of subconscious intuition.

Primarily, that one the concepts of meat eating, vegetarianism, veganism, and all that.

I sincerely believe this to be a personal decision. Where someone is at and how they view the world is their own personal experience and not to be criticized. We all have our own individuality, and that includes what we hold to be good and evil. Good is what is in alignment with our own goals, and evil is that which is not in alignment with our own goals.

When it comes to the nature of diet, I think people often ignore their intuition, and this has a significant influence on how they feel about themselves, their overall mood, and their well-being.

What comes to my mind is the nature of modern conveniences, supermarkets, and what have you. We see this food, and we subtly ignore where it comes from, how it is harvested, and all that. But often, we ignore our feelings about it, we don't take personal responsibility, and we place that on those behind the scenes whom we never actually see with our own eyes. We can ignore what would naturally disgust us personally.

I think of the nature of butchering a cow or chicken is a good example of this. This process, in my eyes, is quite violent and gross. We can think of the cow, the light in its eyes vanishing as it is extinguished by whatever tools are used for that process. Then the skinning and butchering of the animal to then package and ship to the markets.

I would suggest we all know this is real, but we might not look that deeply into it. We choose to turn our heads away, to ignore our intuition.

Everyone is different, though. What I'm trying to share is that we all know within ourselves, at a deep level, what we are participating in. For an individual who is completely comfortable with the process of butchering a cow, I would think eating beef would have no influence on them at a subconscious level. We all perceive reality very differently. Again, what is good and evil is a unique and individualized experience.

This said, we can then begin to see why certain cultures and personalities have different diets. Some people are ok with the process of eating fish; they can do it themselves and feel not the smallest sense of discomfort. Yet, these same individuals that are OK with killing and processing fish, do not feel the same with mammals.

Other individuals are quite comfortable and even find enjoyment from hunting deer. Others are OK with cows and chickens.

Every individual perceives existence in their own way and that's OK.

Then we can also get into the how, how the animals are harvested and how the eggs are produced. I know of several individuals who work on farms, and after farming chickens, for example, they will not eat chicken. They simply cannot participate in it because it's so disgusting to them, having been a witness to the actual process.

To conclude, I'd say this: The subconscious mind knows more than we allow and tolerate. It knows what is going on behind the scenes; it's there, it's always present. 

If we're participating in an activity that we wouldn't do on our own accord simply because the blood is on someone else's hands, I would think it would be best not to participate in that activity by consuming the cleaned-up final end product.

Make up your own mind - and these rules don't have to be absolute. If one lives a comfortable existence, they might be uncomfortable eating beef, and the hassle is not worth it. But if they were starving, they might think differently. 

Moods change, as do seasons.