Have, Do, and Be  

In the progression of a human, possibly over the course of lifetimes, or maybe simply in one lifetime. It appears that a phenomenon occurs in which one progresses.

In the first stage, an individual is preoccupied with the desire to have things, Having. There exists a fascination with material processions. They desire occupation and work as a means to obtain a car, a house, a pool, and other things. The primary focus on this individual will be on how can I make the most amount of money so I can acquire the most amount of things in my present capacity.

The second stage will be in the act of Doing. Here, the individual is fascinated by experiences. What do I need to do to experience the things that I desire to experience? These might include people who love to travel, hike, camp, and do other activities. The experience itself is what fuels that emotional reserve. This might include journalists, people in the military, police officers, firefighters, nurses, and EMTs.

**Note:** Any occupation or career could fit into any of these three categories. So, I don't want to suggest that one career is specifically for the fulfillment of one of these stages only. I use these examples to try to clarify the reasoning. For example, being a police officer is dangerous, and probably many in that field could make more money in other professions, same with teachers, so why do they choose this path? It's not about having things; it's about doing things.

The third stage in development will be that of Being. Here, the individual is preoccupied with the idea of playing a role or stepping into a flow of consciousness and allowing a transmission of information to flow through them. This would include individuals who are very passionate and obsessed with performance in some form or another. We could see this occurring in actors, comedians, artists, athletes, and many other roles and professions within society. People in this stage will usually express some form of greatness, exceptional performance. 

Why? 

Because something supernatural is flowing through them.

On this topic, one is not merely stuck in one specific function - a have, a doer, or a be-er - but that there will be one primary element of these three that brings about emotional fulfillment. Therein will their desire be formed and then filled.

At the same time, it's not necessarily career or occupation-dependent. The same profession can possibly serve across the board. However, the reasoning behind their existence is based on one of these three stages.

I think the vital thing to bring into consideration here is this: what works for one individual may or may not work for another when it comes to these stages. Telling someone they should be a doctor or a lawyer because they'll make lots of money is not necessarily the same as someone who wants to be a doctor or a lawyer simply to experience that or be that. We can also see evidence of this in where an individual chooses to practice. People obsessed in the Have stage might question a doctor or lawyer that does charity work, as an example. “Why do you do that, you could make so much more money if you just…”

Not all lawyers or doctors will push themselves through that process because of the bait of money. People have different motivations. People are pushed and pulled differently. That's an individual and personal experience.

Every benefit carries a burden. With every burden, there exists a benefit. Cost and Reward. That's a personal and individualist decision. 

Addendum: This was but a lie of the Old Covenant, the one that came before. In the New Covenant that I bring forth, The Love that Is contains no strings attached. We can now do what it is that we Desire to do. What it is that we Prefer. 

No longer will there ever be a "need" to do anything we do not want to do.

What is worth it to one, may or may not be worth it to another.

Having an understanding of what it is that brings personal fulfillment can bring about clarity on how to structure one's life in their present circumstances and not get hypnotized by what I would call delusions.

Lastly, these stages can cycle, repeat, and loop through. 

It's not set in stone. 

What was true yesterday is not necessarily true today.