Rationalizing and Justifying 

The nature of what it means to be human often comes in the form of rationalizing and justifying, the ultimate symptom of what I would refer to as [[Sin]].

It's like we are addicted to trying to appease ourselves in the presence of our own self-judgment to rationalize and justify our nature and our right to exist.

Internally, this is often triggered through the nature of internal dialogue to escape a negative sensation, a negative emotion. We feel unloved, unworthy, the desire to hide in shame, and so we try to come up with excuses for why we should not feel that way. Unknowingly we never question the nature of the sensation to begin with - what is this that we are running away from?

In the conversations with others, this is often expressed as well. We try to logically explain our behavior, our desires, our wants, and what brings us meaning and fulfillment to this existence.

I think the most extreme example of this is evangelizing or ministry of a concept, ideology, religion, or political perspective. This phenomenon stems from a fear that if others do not believe as I do, how can I believe and hold on to what I do?

This behavior can turn to extremes in some scenarios, where individuals literally impose their will on others. This can lead to the historical events we have seen in the past, religious wars, genocides, concentration camps, and forms of tyranny.

Internally, within our own inner world, is fundamentally where I perceive its existence to be rooted. 

We, in our [[Sin]], have this concept of not necessarily right and wrong action, but a fundamental Lie that we have bought into. 

This idea of perhaps we are not worthy of existence, of happiness, of going after our own individual goals and aspirations. 

Whatever the case may be, these false premises, these false conclusions, then fueled by the desire for approval or the fear of disapproval, the desire to feel safe and secure, these basic innate structures within the consciousness of what it means to be human, we then build more lies on top of those lies already preexisting. 

This then builds a mound, lies on top of other lies. Eventually, the product is a completely disambiguated, indecisive human being. Lacking the ability to make decisions, in a constant state of indecisiveness, of analysis paralysis. Sinking more and more into lower states of consciousness, unfavorable. 

Anger, then Fear, then Grief, then Apathy, then Guilt, and Shame. Until finally hitting rock bottom, only then, more often than not, will we see the light and rise above this very real predicament.
