Evil 

This term "Evil" is an interesting word and to suggest we can fully comprehend its nature, I would suggest to be a fallacy. That said, we can use certain definitions and certain models of understanding to obtain an idea of what it alludes too.

One definition that I heard from a mentor of mine was that evil is a term to describe that which is worthless. He then went on to say that many confuse the term of evil with what is known as wicked. Wicked is fairly easy to comprehend. Evil, however, is more elusive and more difficult to define.

We often think of the Bible and the scene in the Garden of Eden, this concept of the tree of knowledge of Good and Evil. I have my own speculation on the nature of this story and what it was about and I make my attempt to share that premise in my peice [[In the Beginning]].

I think it is very important for individuals to develop conclusions of morality on their own accord. This is a great work and requires much effort. The failure though to do so, I would conclude, will lead to unfavorable circumstances and hardships.

One definition I've come to the conclusion of Good and Evil, is the idea that Good is that which is alignment with one's goals and evil(worthless) is that which is not in alignment with one's goals. Again, I do not wish to confuse evil and wicked here.

I would suggest that wicked is evil, but evil is not necessarily wicked.

Now when we speculate on this definition of Good and Evil having to do with one's personal goals and endeavors, that morality is likely to change over the process of time and the development of oneself in the Spiritual Plane. This goes into the nature of the [[Self-Image]] and what one identifies with in their current stage of development.

What was Good yesterday may be Evil today.

I think the greatest hinderance to discovering and defining the nature of Good and Evil, is a disease that is often propagated throughout the world, even under the guise of supremely good intentions that are never to be questioned, lest one go to hell. Often this behavior is found in many religious circles.

Fundamentally, I see this nature, this behavior, to be a form of manipulation brought forth by Evil itself. This Evil being that in the form of a Lie.

Often, it is said that the Devil is "The Father of Lies".

And I would speculate "this" element has infiltrated and infected much of supposed "Good" organizations, much like a virus, a mind virus. That said, I remain speculative and forever cautious, using intense discernment, when I engage with its personnel/agents.

As they say, "The road to hell is paved with good intentions.".

In my experiences through meditation, as well as my walk through this life, I have come to that same conclusion that the ultimate being of Evil, is in fact, the "The Father of Lies". Whether that is a sentient and autonomous being with agency or merely a machine like device that merely spits out lies and the perversion of truth, in the form of a frequency, much like a radio,  I cannot yet determine.

As it was revealed to me in deep meditation, "Evil is very real, and it comes in the form of the Deceiver/Manipulator." Currently, I hold this concept to be true.

To allude lightly into this concept and idea of what I mean by those Lies, I'd recommend my piece on [[The Truth Will Set You Free]].