Implied Consent 

In my study of Jurisprudence, which is the philosophy of Law, I took an interest in the idea of consent around the year 2013. This is a very interesting topic, and to be more specific, the nature of implied consent has been an ongoing interest of mine that continues to develop to this day.

I think, more often than not, that many confuse the nature of consent with merely the concept of expressed consent. Expressed consent has to do with the nature of the agreement, primarily in verbal or written nature. We say yes or no to things. We agree or disagree with commercial agreements. 

However, the nature of implied consent is much more fascinating to me, and one that I would speculate could grow in development over the course of a whole lifetime, perhaps multiple lifetimes.

The intricacies of implied consent range and bleed into every aspect of life - from my observation.

And that nature is so subtle and nuanced that I can fully understand and see why it can be quite difficult for people to comprehend. Its nature is almost, if not completely, metaphysical as if existing in another dimension, a higher dimension, which then bleeds into the physical plane.

To comprehend the nature of implied consent, I think we have to investigate the concept of the Heart and the Self-Image. What we hold to be true in our Heart, as the saying goes, the Self is always shining through. Then into concepts of the [[Self-Image]], which I define as one's definition of oneself, but also, to never be discounted, the definitions that we hold of others existing in the external reality.

An example of implied consent, I think back on the Teachings of Jesus from the Bible. To live by the sword is to die by the sword.

>Then said Jesus unto him, Put up again thy sword into his place: for all they that take the sword shall perish with the sword. 
>**-Matthew 26:52** from the Bible

What we give, we are to receive; I think this is a very accurate way to describe the nature of implied consent - but yet it is more difficult to articulate than that.

We have to almost have the capacity to look outside of ourselves and observe our behavior from an outside observer, one who has no understanding of the motivations behind the behavior. Then think of that outside observer's conclusions on what our behavior is communicating.

To consent to war is to consent to war.

I think this is one of the easier ways to comprehend the nature of implied consent. If one chooses to become aggressive, and argumentative, at the request of another - what does that imply?

But yet, there is something deeper still. 

Perhaps one is in a courtroom, and a judge/magistrate tells this individual, "Sit down!". If the individual chooses to sit down, perhaps motivated by fear or apathy, what does that imply of this individual's relationship to that of the judge/magistrate?

Perhaps instead, he argues and gets upset, the individual's emotions becoming engaged by this external stimuli and then behaving in a way that is quite undiplomatic. What does this behavior communicate to an outside observer who has no skin in the game?

Then we could look deeper: what if this individual, in response to being demanded to sit down, simply asked, "Would it be OK if I sit down? I think I'd like to sit down, would that be ok with you?" - what does this style of behavior communicate about the relationship between the two parties?

Actions often speak louder than words, if not always. Because of my stance on that, I would speculate that implied consent is actually more powerful and holds more weight than expressed consent.

That's just my opinion.

There are many other examples of this concept of implied consent and how it plays out in our lives. There is absolutely no escaping from it. Implied consent is always happening. 

The Self is always shining through. 

But if we are not conscious of this phenomenon, of this nature known as implied consent, who and what are we really? Are we human or are we merely an animal? Maybe we are merely a robot, a program, that simply reacts to external stimuli and completely lacks the nature of free will?

You decide.