Initiation Into the String of Pearls

The year was 2010 - many things had unfolded before then. I had operated in many capacities and accomplished many things. 

Three months before this, I had achieved absolutely every single thing I could ever think or imagine to achieve, except one lingering goal, one last endeavour, that I had been holding back on.

I had just arrived back in the States from living out in Macedonia for the summer. I decided to move down to Baton Rouge, thinking I could find something inspiring there, more women, more alcohol, more partying.

I did partake in those activities, but the high from these experiences of the past could no longer be achieved. 

Every night I would go out to party, until one day in the month of September. 

Football season had just started, and I was out at a nightclub, flirting with random women and having conversations with random people. 

I approached a woman within a group, and her response was something I hadn't seen in many, many years: that of rejection, but instantly, as the words "Hey" left my mouth.

"Get away from me you fucking loser!"

The tone, the words, that sound, pierced through my skull, as I leaned and looked to my left into the sky, my eyes that of a deer staring into the headlights of an oncoming car, the ringing in my ears. That question instantly provoked, "Am I a loser? Why am I still doing this? How much is enough? What's the point in all this? Why am I here?"

I stood motionless and in a trance-like state for what seemed like a significant amount of time, but it was perhaps only 90 seconds or so. Staring at the ceiling of a local night club within 5 minutes of walking from my apartment.

The thought came - "I need to get out of here, right now... I need to get back to my home..."

I then left and walked back to my apartment in a state of complete distress.

What's the meaning of all of this? 

These thoughts that I had been running away from, which had occurred only 3 months prior, had now returned with even more intensity. I quickly walked back in the darkness to my apartment, that subtle energy of anxiety and despair coming over me.

"There has to be something better than this. There has to be something left that I want to achieve. Something more meaningful than all this nonsense."

I remembered then from the books I had read, and a couple of the gurus I had followed, this concept of going free.

Many spiritual practices and religious circles talk about this idea. Some call it freedom, some call it going clear, some call it liberation, many names, but ultimately the same concept.

I wanted to know, "Is it real? Are these things they say of, are they true?"

I then made the decision that night, I was going to commit my life to discovering the answer, succeed or fail, I needed to know, even if it cost me my life.

The next morning, I went to the grocery store and stocked up on basic food supplies and came back to my apartment, and started the process.

It was my understanding that this process was a 3-week job - 21 days to complete, and so, I began the trek of my mission to Truly Know.

Little did I know, though I had read many books, followed many teachers and gurus, I was well underprepared for what was to come. 

Many lies still existed within me. 

My ignorance, hidden by layers and layers of darker and darker abysses.

Still naive, I pursued unknowingly into what was to come.

All was well until it wasn't...

I meditated nonstop 16-20 hours per day, every single day. Only stopping for the basics: to eat, sleep, and use the restroom. 

No screens, no technology, no music, no conversation, no distractions. 

Entering into the void of silence, my only entertainment existed within the noise of my own mind. Peeling back layer upon layer, I dove into my greatest fears.

Dissolving them, one by one, but I was not yet ready for what it was to come.

I had been quite agnostic at this stage of my life. Though I grew up protestant. I didn't "think" I believed in things like the Devil, that of Jesus, that of heavenly and demonic bodies, and principalities. 

After all, I had rejected those concepts... yet I would soon come to realize, we never truly reject anything and "what we don't undo, we will go through...."

Herein, I would come to unlock my greatest admiration and with that be pulled into my greatest fear that I could presently access. There is always another level...

Now, in the month of October, coming in on 3 weeks, 21 days, late at night, as I meditated, the music began to play. Angelic and heavenly, I questioned, “What is that?” 

It was so beautiful, I have never heard such music.

I listened in admiration to the symphony of angels singing. Soon, though, it was now time for what I would come to call "the game" to begin.

Being pulled into that dimension by that which I saw as positive, I was also being pulled into what I perceived as negative - they are one and the same... see [[Heaven and Hell]].

Then a new music began to play, a rock-like music, also beautiful and magnificent in its own way, but having an eerie and frightening context, foundation, under and within it all. The music played as the fear within me rose and rose and the questions of “the game” began to speak forth…

Still committed, I meditated with a mission to eradicate it all. I was in battle, not yet understanding the power in having love and respect for our enemies, and how consenting to war is to consent to war. I took it full on instead, to take on the fight.

I can only describe the events that would unfold as being quite surreal. 

That fear would be beyond significant.

I was presented with what I believed at the time to be the Devil presenting me with an offer. 

That offer being that I could have anything and everything in this world if only I would stop my quest.

However, in my Heart of Hearts, I had already done it all. It was all so meaningless. Nothing in this world meant anything to me anymore. I had dated and been with many women. I had operated in the capacity of being looked up to in many ways and for many reasons. Money was not an issue, in that I had the ability to obtain anything I truly "wanted"; it was all so utterly meaningless.

This is what I communicated, and this "Devil" became quite irate. I could feel His presence, the heat of His breathe on the back of my neck, His hand reaching into my upper back as I sat in my meditation, now grabbing my physical heart, a sharp pain of excruciating quality shook throughout my entire body, as the physical lights in my apartment turned off, and I was plummeted into the earth into a dark abyss.

There, in this dark abyss, darker than the darkest dark, I would be presented with what I can only describe as a blue Tesla ball of magnificent proportions, screaming at me with a voice of absolute and horrific thunder.

"GOD NEVER LOVED YOU! YOU ARE A SACK OF SHIT! AND YOU KNOW IT'S TRUE!!!!"

A spiritual battle then unfolded, me vs this entity. But I can't say it was me in the traditional sense. It was like I was absent of an Ego, and it was like this fluidity to it all, like some sort of chemical reaction. 

I understood that something was going on, motion was taking place, but it was not like "I" was taking the action or making the decisions, yet it was "me".

Eventually, the process would be complete, and I would return to my apartment, where I had found my lights on and everything was so calm and easy going.

"Was that real?" is all I could ask myself... and I honestly didn't know, I could only speculate in awe. 

"What was that?"

So many questions, now more questions than I had before I started my 21-day meditation binge.

From there, I lost the motivation to continue my meditations. No reason why, I didn't think I had accomplished anything, I just kind of didn't care anymore, the motivation had left me...

The next night, though, another layer of fear would be evoked. I would remember what had happened, and terror would strike through my body. 

I saw myself as a sinner now, unworthy of God's love, for I was quite promiscuous and now began to perceive myself as Spiritually dirty. 

I wasn't freaking out about it, but this underlying sense of guilt and obligation was streaming through my core, that I was in the wrong in the eyes of God. 

And with that subtle memory of the previous night, that lingering fear of going back to that hell and dealing with that entity, whatever that might be.

I was currently sleeping with a woman whom I hadn't seen since I started my meditation process. I sent her a text, asking if I could come over. Though I didn't say it, I just felt this significant unease, like I didn't want to be alone, I didn't want to face "that" again, and I needed to be with someone.

She said yes, and I went over to her apartment. 

Keep in mind that I am in an alternate reality still. The mediation had stopped, but I had not yet returned to baseline reality, again, see [[Heaven and Hell]] to comprehend that more.

Being at her place, everything was relaxed for a bit, until that fear was evoked of being a sinner in the eyes of God and how I now needed to clean up my life, "get married", and stop being "me". 

So I ended up asking her to marry me. She giggled and said, "I don't know..."

This evoked a fear within me greater than the last. I was under the assumption and presumption that it was not up to me; I didn't need her to marry me, but I needed to make the request.

If she said yes, I needed to follow through with it, even though it was not what I wanted to do. However, if she said "No", then I was off the hook, and I had held up my end of the bargain in the eyes of “God”.

However, she just kept saying, "I don't know", thinking it was cute, and with each passing, the fear and frustration within me became greater and greater.

Next thing you know, I'm screaming in the same voice as that of the entity I had encountered below. "WILL YOU MARRY ME!" and that evoked a lot of confusion and a significant amount of fear in her, as well as her two roommates.

They quickly escaped my presence, went to the neighbors, and called the police.

Much would unfold from there. I would have my left shoe removed and lost in a physical encounter with the police, and I would be taken into jail. 

Many strange things occurred, many, many strange things. 

Some of which I do not wish to discuss at this time, but it has to do with the knowledge that was streaming out of me, these questions I would ask the officers, this understanding that I had acquired, not knowing from where.

I would spend some time in jail, again, a lot of strange things occurred. I certainly brought the fear of God into the hearts and minds of many within that facility, those of the officers and of the detained or arrested.

So many things happened that it would consume so much time to discuss.

My mother eventually would come to pick me up from the jail as I was escorted out from the back of the facility.

My mother, quite an anxious human, was heavily concerned and secretive about her intentions. She was to take me to a facility, a mental asylum, a psych ward, which I could suggest was how it was "supposed" to play out.

There, I would spend exactly 10 days - again, many strange experiences, from my heart sinking into my stomach, to experiencing being in a timeless state of purgatory, to interacting with beings that were dead. 

I even met a woman who had shot herself in the head there, literally... 

I even placed my fingers into the bullet wound, brought forth by a .22 handgun shot by her own hand, into the right side of her skull. I put my fingers into the wound and felt it because I couldn't believe her words. How could she still be alive and speak?

For her, I offered my understanding to help her, as I had the others, to achieve a state of peace once again for the decisions they had made to get them there.

Upon my discharge, it would take some time for me to come fully back into this reality, what I call baseline or consensus reality. 

I would have to traverse many layers, and many new perspectives would come in to help me make sense of it all.

Positive and negative, but overall positive because it played out the way it played out for my own Spiritual Development.

I can't say I was fully healed from it all until I wrote that poem, "Significance of 3 AM"(see my YouTube Channel), piecing it all together and bringing me some closure to the events that had unfolded. 

That poem actually came several months after the encounter, but it brought me the closure I needed to the event, at least for a significant period of time.

Though for many years after, I had thought I had moved beyond it, that itch within this mind remained, and my disgust towards that "enemy" and my desire to conquer and overcome even that fear, would eventually take me back to "that" place, more times than once...

It would be many, many years before I would come into that True understanding...

And that was only achieved in learning to find love and respect for even that enemy.