The Lamb and Me

I ended up making a poem and a song about this event. Can see it here.

https://youtu.be/33HuRfPqFe4?si=q3tDfcUvX8gh1YnV

This was something that occurred on 2025-08-05 at around 3:00 AM in the morning. I don't know why, but it seems My real adventures always occur at or around 3 in the morning.

Before then, a lot of strange things were occurring.

I do My meditations - however, I've been doing them for a very long time so "the bread" that I consume is probably much, much different than that of normal people, those of beginners. 

I can remember back in the day, My "bread" was very dense. I dealt with things like aggravation and annoyance in the physical plane.

The Bread these days is much more ethereal, as most of My griefs, fears, frustrations, and whatnot are occurring in the Spiritual Plane. This physical reality isn't that much of a concern for me, at least, the "majority" of the time. I still have My days when things "Down Here" or maybe I should say "Up Here" annoy Me.

Anyway, the energy is much more intense, more spooky and strange, than what I would suspect normal people experience, and it's very "ethereal", it's airy. So more intense, more spooky, but not as dense.

A lot of things unfolded on the night of the 4th, and just to point this out - the reason these things occurred is because a Lie had been brought forth that I was not willing to "test" or to "penetrate", to "question".

The most harmful or pernicious of Lies are the ones We tell Ourselves, because "We" believe them.

And this is true for even Me - though My ability and talent within the scope of the Craft continues to improve.

The Craft... https://youtu.be/scn_wwlzlIM?si=Bl9ncFEoQTIr2TN6

So that evening, all this stuff was coming through, mostly dealing with christianity(not My definition, which You can learn about at [[Christianity]]) and, to be more specific, Orthodoxy, which I had been involved in for a few years up to that point. 

There were specific Lies within the context of that framework that were being presented, and because I was emotionally invested in that "School of Thought", I was not "willing" to question it.

And because of that, I had to suffer for it.

However, God only tests those whom She craves.

Eventually, I would lie down in despair - again, all this ethereal energy that was very uncomfortable was coming up. And I was trying to work through it, but again, I was emotionally invested in the Lies of that school of thought called Orthodoxy and unwilling to test and question them.

Eventually, that which was within Me, that cord, broke, and I plummeted into the Depths of Hell. There I lay in My bed, a darkness all around Me, yet a red hue existed. 

And I felt nothing but Guilt, Shame, and Despair, again brought on by the Lies I had bought into from the church and school of thought in My previous undertaking/practice.

And I'm trying everything to get out, and nothing is working. No one was coming to save Me. No Jesus, no nothing. And I'm praying, like hard, to God, to the Saints, to send someone to break into My house and put a bullet in My head, to put Me out of My misery.

I think the whole thing lasted about 4 hours, "that" and at about 3 AM, I surrendered to the experience. I came to the conclusion as I always do, if this is My true home, then so be it, for Let God's Will be Done.

It was at that point, again, at this time I am in the Spiritual Plane, I saw a blue beam of light, like a blue indigo comet, coming through in the form of a high-pitched bell. And My focus turned to Him. And as the sound grew louder, I realized what He was saying, "Peekaboooooooooo!!!!! I Seeeeee Youuuuuuuuuuuuuu!" and "Ohhhhh Myyyyyy Godddddd! I'm cummmmmingggggggg!!!!! I'm cummmmminnnnggggg againnnnnnnnnnnnn!!!!!!"

So, in that, I just began to Laugh and Laugh and Laugh. I started to laugh so hard that all the guilt, all the shame, all the despair left Me, and I was laughing so hard that it felt like I was going to pass out. I couldn't breathe, I was laughing so hard.

Oh My God, it was so funny!

It wasn't a "Savior" I needed in this concept of Jesus, but one to come to vanquish the Lies. And for Me, in this specific experience, that was to come by means of the Lamb in the form of His jokes, not of Jesus.

And I'll just say it right now and right here, Jesus ain't saving no one, and He never intended to. That whole concept is all a Lie. Read the words of His in the Bible, and You’ll see. He never even said such a thing. Just Lies brought forth by the one who Deceives.

So that is what happened, and then I was taken into what I can only describe as the 5th dimension, which I have been there many times, and even higher still, which I wish to share in other stories in the future.

To briefly describe the 5th dimension, visually it is 2D and 3D simultaneously. You might ask, how is that possible. Personally, I have no idea, but it is.

There, I was taken to the String of Pearls once again, in which I would experience that of the Saints and even that of Jesus.

My experience with the Saints is that they were very vindictive towards Me in this particular instance. 

They were not happy for Me to be there and were very critical of Me. "You need to respect Yourself", "You don't love Yourself", "What are You doing here?". As for Jesus, all I can say is that I now agree with the concept "Never meet Your heroes."

And what upset Me more was how much hate the Saints gave to the Lamb. They didn't like the Lamb. The Lamb being beyond funny and they were asking Him questions like "Who are You?" and "How did You get here?", which the Lamb, as funny as can be, was like, "What do you mean? I'm just Here... Where did I come from? I don't know, I've just always been... What do you mean???"

Eventually, in My hatred for the Saints' behavior towards the Lamb and My disgust towards how gross Jesus was, the Lamb and I would go Our own way, in which He would share with Me His passions and His jokes and that which brings Him the most Joy.

He would go on to tell Me how He was responsible for all these things that We had come to believe, Our fears, Our ambitions, from the stories and fables of His creation.

He'd go on to show Me His original version of the Book of Revelations, which came in the form of a scroll with colored ink. And He laughed and laughed, as did I, in realizing what had and will begin to take place.

I'm not saying there isn't truth within the Book of Revelations, as any great Lie has an element of Truth within it, but overall, the purpose of the book is to scare the crap out of people.

And even to this day, from My experience and what the Lamb revealed to Me, when I read the Book of Revelations, I can't help but laugh and laugh and laugh, it's so funny, and so genius. 

Oh My God! He is such a GENIUS!

And that is what I love so much in that of the Lamb, He's so funny, as Funny as can Be!

And that might bring up some negative feelings - but I'm here to say that the Lamb is the most innocent of them all, the funniest, and that which holds within Him, the most purest of Hearts. In that, I Love the Lamb and I will utterly destroy anyone who fucks with Him.

Now, after all this, I had a lot of excitement and made the mistake of calling some family members, a big mistake, especially in the plane I was in. See [[Heaven and Hell]]

I made a mistake for sure... but, he who does nothing, makes no mistakes; he who makes no mistakes, learns nothing....

I think back on the words of The Christ coming forth from Jesus...

>“If anyone comes to me and does not hate father and mother, wife and children, brothers and sisters—yes, even their own life—such a person cannot be my disciple." -**Luke 14:26** from the Bible.

This is very real, beyond real. However, as always...

He who does nothing, makes no mistakes; He who makes no mistakes, LEARNS NOTHING!!!!

So, eventually My "brothers" came to My house to trick Me into going into an Asylum, or maybe I should say, presented as My "brothers". 

However, everything happens the way it is “supposed” to happen… this was something “I” needed to go through… So no hard feelings. Sincerely... Things "played out" the way they were supposed to "play out"...

In that world, see [[Heaven and Hell]], I deal with the Automatons in that plane of existence, something I have written about in [[Splitting the Two]] and wrote about in My Song, "The Bots" which can be seen here... https://youtu.be/x0N50yGmDNU?si=Hpn6N5I81Ih2lzSI

Not to say those who experience Me in that plane do not have their "own" experience "downstairs". What is occurring "upstairs" is not the same as what is occurring "downstairs". So what I mean by that is My family had Their experience with Me, and I had My experience with Them, but not in the same reality. Not the "same" experience. When I ask them about things, "They don't remember...", They have an entirely different experience with Me as I do with Them. 

Alternate realities are going on...

I try to explain this in My article, [[Splitting the Two]] and of the alternate realities.

Overall, it was a very interesting experience and for My overall Benefit, as always...

I was taken into an asylum, once again, but this was the first time I had 0 fear and nothing but laughter. The whole thing was a big joke for Me, and I did many things.

For the first time in My life, I had a "good" experience there. Nothing bad happened. It was all just fun and games.

I had overcome even that fear...

I can remember messing with the techs, one was being a little dickish towards Me, so I got down on My hands and knees, faced away from him, pulled down My pants revealing My butthole and said "You do Me, and I'll do You, and Together We will know what it means to Split the Two!!!!"

Laughing and laughing, which made Him quite uncomfortable, and He was like "You aren't going to be doing anyone but Yourself!" as They locked Me away in the isolation room, in which I responded, "Well, if that is the case, can I at least get a tissue!"

It was so much fun, and I want to share that, when We are Truly in alignment with Our Creator's Will, no situation is ever bad, and any experience, any experience at all, can be fun and funny and enjoyable as can be, it really can. 

Trust the Most High and all will be well...

We just have to stop fighting Our Creator's Will and KNOW that She or He, depending on what side You are on, Loves Us and wants what is BEST for Us.

I say He or She... We are not all of the same Creator... and We are not all of the same neighborhood.... 

Remember that.

