Grand Scheme - We All On The Same Team

From my perspective, what is going on has to do with the nature of Love - the Reality of what Love is.

My definition of Love: Unconditional Acceptance Towards GROWTH!!!

And You cannot grow without an Adversary.

And the Adversary cannot grow without Us.

Instead of war, I'd present it as a competition, even a friendly one, though it might not appear that way.

For what - to collect the charges for a successful Harvest. What's the Harvest about? 

Our unique and Individual expansion and growth - moving into the next level for Us, whatever that might be, individually.

That Next Level.

How do We achieve this?

Speaking Our Truth, whatever that might be, and being Authentic, True to Ourselves, in whatever capacity that might be.

This isn't about what is good and bad, that nonsense doesn't matter.

It's about Growth and Development, and that's only achieved by means of the Harvest - and we’re talking about at the Spiritual Level - The Cause of All Causes.

That said, I would encourage a few articles in preparation. If You don't understand them yet, no worries, it'll come with time and practice, trial and error. 

**He who does nothing, makes no mistakes; He who makes no mistakes, LEARNS NOTHING!!!**

Articles I'd encourage You to read and don't assume You know what they are about just from the titles.

[[The 10 Commandments]]

[[The Greatest Commandment]]

[[The Lord's Prayer]]

[[Harvesting Meditation]]

[[Harvesting (Advanced)]]

[[Chart of Emotions]]

[[The Christ and The Anti-Christ]]

Even this idea of The Christ and The Anti-Christ, in the grand scheme of things, They are on the same team. Both need each other, though it is a form of combat. 

Where does that combat take place, within the Spiritual Plane - though We are affected by that influence.

For every Lie, there must be a Truth to dissolve it, and a better Lie to then defeat that Truth, and so it goes... Back and forth, back and forth. 

Contraction and Expansion, but in the form of ideas and concepts, the nature of Reality itself.

Beautiful Truths
Beautiful Lies
Ugly Truths
Ugly Lies
  
And that's the foundation of our internal dialogue and thoughts coming in. 

It is in the Spiritual Plane, and we are affected by it. The Spiritual Plane is the root of this one, the Cause. Everything bleeds from there to here.

We need "Limitations", those of Lies to exist in a reality. If we didn't have the Lies of limitation, we'd merely exist in all possibilities, which looks like a black matte infinite abyss. 
  
That black abyss that most people are afraid of is actually all possibilities blended together. 

It's not NOTHING, it is, in fact, EVERYTHING!

So what are We doing?

Growing up, basically. 

And to do that, We have to Be who it is that We are. 

Whatever that might Be.

Can You speak forth "Your" Truth?

Can You represent "Your" Truth?

That's the goal...

And yes, no one, including Me, is going to get it perfect. This is a process of trial and error. 

But the more You move through, the less fear You have of fucking it up. 

You realize that You are and were always Protected. That for Me came with time, so I assume it might take others time to realize that too. But I can’t be 100% certain on that, because I cannot read anyone else's mind.

Here’s what We do.

We do what we think is Our Truth, succeed or fail, and then We learn through the process.

Step by Step.... and for Me, [[Harvesting Meditation]] daily.

That's how I'm able to stay confident in what it is I am doing and not get shaken, and believe Me, I get attacked. I think almost every day, I have to go into a Spiritual Battle with those Nasty, Nasty, Lies.

And I've been through this plenty of times in the past and have Lost My Shoe, more than once. 

But I always came back, cleaned myself up, and tried again. 

That's the name of the game.

The only way to fail is to quit.

And through Harvesting and My relationship with The Christ, I have yet to be defeated this go around, so I keep pushing forward in what it is that I want to achieve.

And I guess, I could share that too, part of being True to Yourself, is going after what you want, and avoiding what You do not want. Whatever those are for You and You alone. Not what others want or don't want, but what do You truly want and what do You truly not want. 

Move into the Life You desire.

I write this blog, I put My music out there, all these things, I do for "My" Benefit and My Benefit Alone. I want to make that clear. I'm doing this for Me.

I speak forth My Truth, and because of that, I gain access to more and more Truth, and My relationship with The Christ becomes stronger and stronger.

This is how it is done.

Stop looking for approval out there in that outside world. 

You are not going to get it, and it doesn't come from there. 

All those bad feelings when people pick on you or put you down, those bad feelings are caused by the Lies. 

Eradicate the Lies and You will Stand Tall in the Face of any Adversary, no matter how great they may be.

Speak Forth Thy Truth...

**AND MAY THE MOST BEAUTIFUL TRUTH WIN!!!!!**