Red Pill Dating Advice

When I look online at things like YouTube and other social media outlets, there is a lot of stuff on Dating these days and this concept of being Red Pilled.

Though some of this information might be true, I think that is more relevant to those who exists in that [[Reality Tunnel]]. People who live there find more and more evidence to suggest that it is real. I'm not saying it's not real in some capacity. But anything we focus our attention on, is surely to grow. What we hold in mind, the [[Charge|charges]] contained within, we're magnets to what we fight against. As Carl Jung said so long ago, "What we resists, not only persist, but grows."

Though most of the content titled Red Pill is primarily directed toward a male audience, I also see women who struggle with dating and relationships too. The women's content may not be considered Red Pill, but I think my perspective will be beneficial for both men and women and my thoughts on this trend in content and social media.

What I see as a problem on both sides of this argument, whether it be men or women, is a lack of boundaries, a lack of self-respect, a lack of self-esteem, a lack of assertiveness (which is not to be mistaken with passive or aggressive or passive-aggressive communication), and a lack of just foundational and very basic communication skills.

We see all the complaints on the men's side. Divorce, infidelity, women engaging in promiscuous activities, and all that. I see on the women's side, women talking about not settling, looking for high-value men, and all this other stuff, a lot of it I would kind of consider to be toxic femininity, to be honest. Toxic being it's the desire to be manipulative in some way so they are not manipulated themselves.

I see both on the Men side/arguments and the Woman side/arguments is this desire to come up with some trick, or technique, or method to manipulate the other side. Guilt trip, scarcity, and all the rest of it.

However, birds of a feather, flock together. 

There is no escaping that. 

Show me your friends, and I will show you who you are.

There are always two sides to every coin.

Yin/Yang.

Healthy people do not mix or relate with unhealthy people. 

Oil and Water.

One of the complaints I see on the men's side is this frustration with women having an emergency fund, hidden money, where they can jet if things get tough. A lot of men see this as nefarious and untrustworthy behavior, and in a small way, I can agree with that. I can agree with it in the sense of “Why does it need to be hidden?”

To phrase it differently, why can't it not just be open that the woman has funds of her own so she can feel comfortable knowing she can take care of herself if the relationship ends?

I would say the same should be true for the man too, why be dependent on the women? If she leaves, along with her job, will the rent or mortgage get paid? If not, the man is now dependent as well, and that's not good.

From my perception of reality, I think we get in return what we give. Also, I'm a big believer in implied consent. If I wish to control another individual by means of whatever, holding a carrot over their head, or a stick at the base of their heels - I would conclude that I also consent to the same being done to me.

That said, I would be very cautious of how I engage with others. Where am I coming from within the scope of my engagements and interactions?

I think it's a very healthy thing to have 6+ months of funds available for any grown and mature adult. Relationship or not. 

If an individual is 100% dependent on funds from an outside source, living paycheck to paycheck, or however else one is being supported, they have no power and no leverage in negotiation nor the ability to form a compromise. 

Think of asking for a raise, or resolving a basic conflict at work, or the many other things, for example, being asked to do things outside the scope of the commercial agreement. 

If you can't say no or walk away, what power do you have?

It's very difficult to negotiate, if not impossible when you do not have the power to simply walk away from a bad deal. That stance, that frame of mind, to desire to limit someone from having that power, I would suggest, is extremely unhealthy and debilitating.

I think we should all encourage the people we relate to to be themselves and have the power and flexibility to let that true self shine forth. So to keep someone we are in a romantic relationship trapped to the point that they don't feel comfortable really being themselves, that's not good. 

That's a toxic relationship.

Again, I'd strongly suggest that we receive what we give. If we consent to trapping someone psychologically or manipulating someone, we consent to the same being done to us. Maybe not in the exact same way, but the theme will be present in our own lives. 

Reflections, Shadow Self, the World is a Mirror, the Self is always shining through, ideas like that reflect this point beyond the concept of implied consent.

I think everyone should have the capacity to make the choices they wish to make and move toward the life they desire, not necessarily given it freely, but at least the opportunity to attempt to move into it, to create the life they desire on their own accord. 

Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Happiness. 

The pursuit - that's important in the discovery and in maintaining personal meaning to this existence. 

Why would anyone want to take that away from another?

And that’s the question I ask myself when I watch both the Men and the Women out there discussing their issues, their strategies, and their conflicts, which ultimately stem from a desire to manipulate instead of operating like a grown and mature healthy adult, with assertiveness.

Again, I think primarily what is going on in the current modern times, more especially in these arguments for and against Red Pill doctrine and dating and all that, is a failure to comprehend and understand the nature of Communication, Healthy Boundaries, and the ability to be Assertive and to move into a direction and life that is actually meaningful.

Because people cannot see this or do not know this, they resort to manipulation, guilt-tripping, lying to each other, scaring people, and all the rest of it - which in the end, just leads to more misery for everyone.