Fundamentals of Learning

Learning is a craft within itself. The ability to learn is something many people in today's world do not possess, at least in the ability to do it on their own. With the amount of information so widely and conveniently available, with enough motivation and passion, I would suggest that any subject matter can be learned in a very cost-effective manner.

I think there are a few things to take into consideration when undertaking a new subject matter, and I'd like to list them here as my perspective on the nature of learning.

One thing we need to first understand is that learning is like building a pyramid from the bottom up. We could also look at this process in the act of progressively and incrementally going up stairs. We start from the bottom stair and we step up, one stair at a time.

It is not possible to start at the top of the highest level of understanding. Instead we must start at the bottom and work our way up. If we do not build a strong enough foundation to support our endeavor of becoming competent in whatever subject matter it may be, we are wasting our time. It is better to invest a good chunk of time building the foundation than trying to speed through the book or whatever it may be.

I think of the phrase, it is better to sharpen ones axe before the process of chopping down the tree.

I want to make this very clear, so as to not be ignored.

One of the greatest hindrances to learning is the failure to develop a strong foundation on which to build. 

When I think of college courses, they often have a textbook. If you are like me and didn't much enjoy going to class but instead decided to simply read the book, it's important to have a full and comprehensive understanding of the first few chapters. I'd say the first 3 chapters are common for the foundational understanding necessary when it comes to learning material from college textbooks. I would suggest reading these chapters multiple times, if necessary, until the foundation is strong and solidified.

Once a foundation is built, through reading and comprehension, exercises if they are available, and learning the basics of the fundamentals on the vocabulary, from then on out, the learning of the subject matter is much easier to both consume and digest.

The other thing to be wary of is if one cannot grasp the foundations of the textbook, in this example, we must go backward and learn the fundamentals of the subject matter that exists prior to the current textbook. For example, if we are learning Algebra, we must first have a foundation and a good understanding of Arithmetic.

The next thing to be aware of is that it may very well be necessary to unlearn certain concepts that we hold to be true but may not be true, or simply are not true in the subject matter we are studying. Bruce Lee talked about this in the idea that one must empty their cup before he could fill their cup. If we are emotionally invested in information that is not correct or not understood, this can cause significant issues in the learning process.

Why?

Because we are trying to build upon something that has no foundation.

The next thing I'd advise in the learning process is to comprehend the language of the subject matter. Have good dictionaries and if your subject matter is very niche, be sure to get a dictionary on that specific subject matter.

I think of the word "Person". A person means many things depending on what subject is being referred to. In legal studies, a person is one thing, in religious studies it is another, and in colloquial everyday mainstream speak, a person is yet something else as well. 

Failure to establish an understanding of the Lexicon within the scope of the subject matter, more often than not, one will be left discombobulated and chasing red herrings and useless phenomena. 

It's very important to comprehend the language and the words, the definitions within the scope of that subject matter.

One thing I have learned is to never assume I understand the definition of words. If I am reading a new subject matter and something seems strange, maybe I can't envision or comprehend a specific sentence, or something just seems "off", the first thing I analyze is the words and look up any definition of a word that I suspect I may not understand. 

This can be tricky because, again, a lot of common words we think we know mean something very different in the context of niche subjects. Security would be another example of a word that means different things depending on the niche.

The next thing I'd bring up when it comes to learning is I am a firm believer in immersion. I think this is a different approach to many programs and educational institutions. I believe in taking one subject and committing all my free time to learning that one specific subject until one has a strong belief in and comfort with that topic before moving into another topic.

This process can be quite straining if the subject matter is extremely new and foreign and/or alien. In my experience, it's almost as if you can feel your mind or your brain stretching. A lot of discomfort can arise as well. Pessimistic thoughts can arise, such as, "Will I ever be able to figure this out?"

Through the process of immersion, it's like the brain and mind are forced to grow. As long as you keep pushing yourself, using the tips I provided above, I'm very confident you have the capacity to learn anything you set your mind to, if you have the motivation to perservere.

It will not always be comfortable, but as the mind stretches and grows, it's like we begin to obtain access to more and more information that then brings about more and more clarity and understanding of the subject matter we desire to learn.