Never Say You Are Sorry

**He who does nothing, makes no mistakes; He who makes no mistakes, LEARNS NOTHING!**

Never, ever, say you are sorry.

But first, we need to understand the nature of words.

What does sorry actually mean?

Sorry: inspiring blended sorrow, pity, scorn, and ridicule.

That's what "Sorry" means, and when you say "I AM.... SORRY", you are agreeing by expressed consent that you are worthy of pity, scorn, and ridicule.

You are literally placing a curse on yourself.

I don't care what anyone has done or does; to define one as that is completely inaccurate. Absolutely no way anyone could be sorry.

Fundamentally, to speak this into existence is to suggest to others, and more importantly, to yourself, that you are unworthy of existing and unworthy of making mistakes to learn along the way.

Everything happens the way it's "supposed" to happen.

Apologies, however, are a little different. The nature of an apology is an explanation of a mistake. It's not saying "I'm sorry", it's saying, hey ,this is what I thought was going on, this is what I did as a response, this is what happened, this is the mistake that I witnessed, and this is what I learned from it.

Even then, I would never apologize to anyone unless an apology is requested. 

If someone says, "I want an apology."

And you respond with, "Well you are not going to get one from me."

That's an appropriate and legitimate response.

Use personal discretion and discernment. 

Is an apology warranted?

Perhaps in a business transaction where you tore something up or put the company in debt, out side that, is it?

Straight Facts: We are all worthy of existence, to learn, to grow, and that is not achieved without making mistakes along the way, no matter how bad or awful they may seem to be at the time.

That's the only way we can truly learn.

If anyone ever ask you to say that you are sorry - kick em out of your life forever - they are a waste of space. 

At the same time, never ask or expect someone else to say they are sorry... remember the nature of [[Implied Consent]]. 

What you sow, you will reap.