Accessing the Muse

The Muse could carry many different meanings. In the times of old, it referred to this idea of something from a higher dimension coming into an individual to be expressed in the form of art and expression. Perhaps music or sculpting.

However, I hold it to be True that it goes much beyond what we currently define as simply Art and Expression, but can move into many other aspects of existence, in which to bring in new technology and understanding into this nature of existence.

I have heard stories that Nikola Tesla would often receive downloads for his understandings, devices, technology, and all that. And many others have reported the same. And I have been a witness to these types of things when it comes to my own interests.

The way I see it unfolding is that we as individuals are containers of raw material that have accumulated for however long. Some would speculate, and I cannot disagree, that this process has been going on for many lifetimes—this accumulation of the raw material, what I refer to as the [[Charge]]. 

Though often it is witnessed that these charges are being acquired in real time, from some frustration or aggravation, or maybe even elation. It may be experienced that way, but I've come to see that, no, these charges have always been there, accumulating. 

So it's like we get hit and the energy gets added into the pile.

That's where this concept of Harvesting comes from and my meditation, [[Harvesting Meditation]]. The idea is that enough time has passed, and it is now time to harvest the material to bring about something new. 

And I've personally witnessed this in many significant ways in my own life. Now, time will show whether it is a fluke, or only available to a select few, or if it just simply is, in fact, "that time".

Time will tell.

Now, to get into this idea of the Muse. What I have achieved in the process of Harvesting is to acquire a silent mind, though it comes and goes. I do have to consume and digest the "Daily Bread" in order to maintain it. I wrote about this in [[Search for the Silence that Is]].

For me, my current interest is in sharing a message, the one presented on this website and within my music, that's my goal that I wish to achieve, “currently”. 

So what I do is through harvesting, my mind goes into that silent place, but beyond that silent place, I will begin to hear the ringing of the bells.

Sometimes the bells are in the right ear, sometimes in the left ear, sometimes in both ears. But as I begin to listen, which is a form of giving Love to it, it begins to grow. And in that, out of that ringing, will flow in this new information, the new data. 

For me, sometimes a new song, sometimes a new article to write, sometimes a new joke that will make me laugh so hard that I think I am literally going to faint.

And to support my claim, every song on my YouTube channel was written in under 30 minutes. Most in 10-15 as one solid stream of consciousness. 

Every single one…

Though to produce them and make the videos and all that takes significantly longer, maybe 8 hours from start to finish, as editing and producing do take time and effort. 

The songs, though - those just flow in, a single stream in which I merely record them into my phone's note-taking app.

This is real - I am not "trying", I just merely allow the information to flow in, and then act as a conduit/vehicle to then send it out into this reality by means of this website, my YouTube channel, and my social media accounts.


I wanted to share that - again, can everyone do this? 

I think so, but I am not 100% certain just yet. I will need more data and evidence before I can be absolutely certain. 

And that will, if it does take place, occur as more and more people discover my music, my website, my jokes, and ultimately, this message that I have brought forth.
