Chart of Emotions

There is an idea that emotions, this energy, progress through a scale. In this idea, there are emotions on the lower end of the scale and then those at the higher end of the scale.

I was first introduced to this concept by Larry Crane, who ran meditation retreats and seminars. It's my understanding that he learned of this from his teacher, Lester Levenson.

I've also seen something extremely similar from the work of David R. Hawkins in his work titled "Power vs Force." 

I cannot say for certain who the original inventor of this concept was. My assumption is that it has existed for thousands of years because that is what has been shown to me repeatedly, suggesting that there is nothing new under the sun.

Lester's model was phrased as AGFLAP and CAP. 

AGFLAP was an acronym for Apathy -> Grief -> Fear -> Lust -> Anger -> Pride

CAP was an acronym for Courageousness -> Acceptance -> Peace

Lester was a significant influence in the school of thought known as "Letting Go." His explanation was that we needed to let go of unwelcome or undesirable emotions and move up the chain to higher levels of personal power. 

He suggested that the bottom half, being AGFLAP was where all problems were rooted. He then suggested that only in CAP could one obtain liberty from the limitations brought forth by AGFLAP.

Hawkins titles his understanding the "Map of Consciousness" and went in the following order from lowest to highest:

Shame -> Guilt -> Apathy -> Grief -> Fear -> Desire -> Anger -> Pride -> Courage -> Neutrality -> Willingness -> Acceptance -> Reason -> Love -> Joy -> Peace -> Enlightenment

**My Understandings and Interpretations**

First, just a note here: I am not a doctor, psychiatrist, psychologist, or anything under a professional label, and I am not here to offer medical or professional advice. I offer this as merely my interpretation—use at your own discretion.

I personally do not believe in "Letting Go" anymore. I know that practice served a role in my development but I now stand by my mediation of [[Harvesting Meditation|Harvesting]]. But these schools of thought seem to stem from the practice of Letting Go. Letting Go was the fundamental idea that one could release the pressure of discomfort simply by letting it go. 

It's my take that Letting Go was simply a technology available at the time, but technologies do improve. I hold that [[Harvesting Meditation|Harvesting]] is that improvement.

I believe now that this pressure is a form of Love from that "whatever" that pours into us. The pressure and discomfort is felt due to a [[Clutch]].

This energy, which we could perceive as Love, can be used to reach higher levels of understanding and truth at a very rapid rate if understood and used properly—this being through the process of Harvesting.

These ideas were primarily focused on discovering or stepping into Freedom. Freedom is a very captivating but nebulous word - what exactly is freedom?

To me freedom is simply the awareness and understanding to escape manipulation and move into agency - free will.

The problem most people face is that they are manipulated by external stimuli and, deeper still, the emotions they feel from these experiences. As Larry would tell me and others, "People don't like their feelings."

Though Lester's model of AGFLAP and CAP has heavily influenced me, I like how Hawkins's version shows Shame and Guilt below Apathy.

I remember a talk we were having with Larry during one of his events about how Lester saw mental illness, psychosis, to be the effects of an individual when they went below Apathy. I would agree with this, and I see substantial evidence to support this.

Let us look first at what a human is—or at least at the construct or theory behind it. I would suggest that whatever it is that makes us human is that of a container. 

The fundamental problem with these lower levels of emotions and the problems that occur from that vibration/frequency is having a leaky container. We can easily say, and I'd strongly suggest that it is true, that the container leaks due to a lack of sufficient and effective boundaries.

Ultimately we are dealing with forces of manipulation and a lack of agency.

If we can see that the lower vibrations of emotions are rooted in leaking out and being manipulated, it is easier to see and walk toward the solution.

Apathy -> I can't, there's no point, this is impossible, etc.

Grief -> Even if I do, it'll fail in the end. Everyone dies. I'm going to be hurt in the end, so why bother?

Fear -> What if I fail? What if I succeed? What if they get me or hurt me?

Lust -> If I can only have this thing, then I'll be happy and complete... I must do whatever is possible and sacrifice my own self-esteem and self-worth to have this thing outside of myself.

Anger -> It didn't work, and I got hurt. Now I'll seek revenge. I'll show them who I really am.

Pride -> I'm better than them anyway. Look at those fools, they are so stupid. I may not be happy, but at least I'm not an idiot.

Back to the mental illness stuff, which is rooted below apathy. This is when the container is leaking so badly that Love is not available at all, though still pouring in, it’s not able to be sustained. 

Often, when people are taken to a hospital for a psychotic break, they have an odor because they haven't had the desire to shower. A complete lack of self-respect and self-compassion exists here. There is no motivation to take care of oneself, even to wash themselves or brush their teeth. They are profusely [[Bleeding Out]].

The same phenomenon can be seen with hoarders—they have no desire to live in a comfortable space. There is no Love left for themselves because it’s bleeding out, and with that, there is no motivation, inspiration, or desire to take care of themselves or their space.

Addictions, involuntary homelessness, etc. also, in my eyes, stem from [[Bleeding Out]].

Lester explained that one could move beyond manipulation only in CAP. I agree with this; however, I suggest Harvesting as a better practice and implementation to overcome the lower spectrums versus Letting Go.

Courageousness is the first and primary emotion of getting a grip on this nonsense, this manipulation. 

We are dealing primarily with guilt trips and fears. It takes courage to stand in the face of that and be unfazed, feeling the fear or whatever yet remaining unafraid. 

Feeling the sensations, the energy, which I would suggest is actually Love, though it may feel unpleasant, yet not being seduced by [[Sin]], which are untruths the mind uses to hijack this Love and bring us into a trance and undermine our capacity. 

This [[Sin]] manifests in the forms of unproductive thoughts and imagination. Held long enough - if those thoughts are not resolved - it usually will manifest as dumb decisions/actions.

