Heaven and Hell

HeavenI'm going to share my perspective and my perception on the nature of Heaven and Hell, which I suspect will be quite different from what many "want" to believe.

In my experience, heaven and hell are merely two sides of a pole in frequency, and I'd suggest that both "could" be hated and both "could" be loved simultaneously.

We often think that these places are somehow different than this plane of existence. I would suggest not. They look exactly like this world, except maybe a little more vibrant.

Yes, the Astral Plane is different. Yes, the Spiritual Plane is different. But Heaven and Hell are very much like this plane of existence that we walk, talk, and operate within and out of.

I think fundamentally it comes down to something quite provocative for me to say to others. 

Heaven is fundamentally composed of Beautiful Lies and Beautiful Truths. 

Hell is fundamentally composed of Ugly Lies and Ugly Truths. 

Depending on what is flowing through, into the consciousness, the voice in your head will determine whether one "perceives" it as Heaven or Hell.

I guess to take things further... fundamentally, they are the "same" place.

The emotions can be quite intense. 

In Hell, it can be so eerie and scary that you might even try to seduce your own mother if you are convinced that is the only way out. While in Heaven, you're so "elated" that you are fundamentally useless. Happy, but without purpose. No Growth can occur because there is no motivation to move beyond anything.

Of course, these rules apply in the other planes of existence as well.

When all the fear is fully eradicated, I would suggest that Hell can actually be a quite peaceful and relaxing place when one is in alignment and at peace with Truth.

It doesn't have to be a big deal because it's not a big deal.

If I had to choose at my current stage of development, I'd choose hell over heaven any day.

For me - that is where I find the Silent stillness that Is. 

True Peace.

But it took me some time to get to that point, didn't happen overnight, that's for sure.

Again, in the grand grand scheme of things - they are the same place - it's merely You that perceives them differently.