Make Mistakes

He who does nothing, makes no mistakes; he who makes no mistakes, learns nothing.

I think one of the most valuable attributes a human can have is the willingness to make mistakes along the way. There is no way of getting around this if you Truly desire to get anywhere.

I've operated in many capacities throughout my life. In my experience, the one thing I see holding people back, and probably my greatest frustration when it comes to those who come to me for some conversation or advice, is their unwillingness to simply try.

And to me, that is somewhat sad, or at least it used to be when I was emotionally invested in the idea of other people succeeding in their endeavors. I've come to the conclusion that most people don't really want what they say they want; they just like the idea of "wanting" it.

They like to talk about how they want it, but they don't truly want it.

Intellectual masturbation... that is all. Just [[Spilling]]... and nothing more than that.

Everything that I have done that I look back on that was worth my time, evoked massive amounts of fear. From playing lawyer in court, to traveling to a foreign country, to the pranks I have done to frighten people, to the jokes I have played, to my meditation and spiritual practices.

And yes, things do happen. Bad things can and do happen. But I've never looked back in regret, never.

I've had my skull cracked, I've had my feet broken, I've had to spend months relearning how to walk again, I've gone to hell(multiple times) and come back, every time - now go their voluntarily, good stuff to learn and see once all the fear is gone. 

I've too lost control of my physical body, being trapped in a body without me having control over it - very scary, until it's not. 

I've experienced operating as other organisms, other people, and many other things in my spiritual practices and meditations. Many times I forgot who this Jake even was, only to return, my heart beating from the fear of having lost myself. Those fears too, go away in time and with practice.

I've been to jail, I've been to asylums, I've had my lung punctured, I've been bitten, I've been in states of that True fear that only God and the Unknown can fully Provide - only to find the Divinity, and that which is Holy, within those too. 

All these things and more, I am thankful for. 

I don't regret a single bit of it because it was all worth it to get me to where I am now. 

And that's how it's always been.

The deeper we dive, the higher we shall(must occur) rise...

And the bigger the charge, the bigger the gain...

There is no way of getting around that.

The only way to get to the next level is to go through the fears, and pierce through the Lies that sustain them. 

That's the only way.

And with each passing, is another desire, another goal, greater and more fulfilling than the last.

But when people are simply unwilling to make mistakes along the way, for whatever reason…  they'll never amount to anything and will have wasted their life for what?

A death that has no meaning because they had a life with no meaning.

Make mistakes, try, and fail, then get back up and try again...

The only way to truly fail is to either quit or, what most people do, never try at all.