Meaning vs Nihilism

I think this is a very interesting topic and something I certainly struggled with in my past as I was developing and being processed.

Nihilism is basically the understanding or presumption that life is inherently empty and meaningless.

I would suggest that there is some truth to this concept. However, all truths are but half-truths, if we are defining truths as a claim vs what I call The [[Truth]]

What I mean by that, a Beautiful Truth, could be, at the same time, a Beautiful Lie. And a Beautiful Lie, could, at the very same time, be a Beautiful Truth.

How could this paradox be?

Life and existence itself are constantly within paradox. I would suggest that paradox is often the very core of existence and of this reality, and perhaps those beyond.

Paradox is the understanding that two opposing views are held to be true, simultaneously.

For example, in this case, Life is Meaning and Life is without Meaning, both true.

And this is when I offer some relief. It depends on the individual and what it is they hold to be true, to be real, to be important. I hold it to be true that we are all creating our own reality, we all live in our own universe, and this has been proven by modern science in technologies such as the reticular activation system and Richard Bandler and John Grinder's work in their technology called the "Meta-Model" - which I speak briefly about in [[Structures of Magic by Richard Bandler and John Grinder]].

I'd say one very significant understanding that I've come to is an old maxim of Law...

"A Power derived cannot be greater than that which it is derived."

The way I express my understanding of this is to think of a generator. If a generator only produces 3000 watts, then only 3000 watts can be obtained.

"The Higher the Charge, The Higher the Gain."

In this, our understanding of our Nature, "our" individual Creator, will determine "our" own individual power, destiny, capacity, capabilities, etc.

For those who do not believe in a Creator but instead believe in merely the material existence, I would suggest that they are voluntarily choosing to limit themselves to a box of quite small proportions.

At the same time, those who choose to put limitations on "their" Creator, the same element is true. That box on "their" Creator is but a limitation they have placed on "their" own existence.

Now, when it comes to discovering meaning, this is a very personal, individualized, and unique discovery. One that can and most likely will evolve over the course of time.

What does it mean?

You have unlimited capacity to discover and even create that for yourself.

Why not make it something cool?

[[What Else Could It Mean]] - an exercise you might enjoy if this interests you.