Search for the Silence that Is

Within the Silence exists true power, true creativity, access to The Christ, and many other wonderful and awe-inspiring technologies.

I know that many people struggle to hold and maintain a silent mind, but it really is not that hard if you know what to look for. I've offered my [[Harvesting Meditation]] and in my eyes, it's the easiest and quickest path to achieving a silent mind and having the capacity to hold it for significant amounts of time.

In that place, it's like the heavens open up and we can obtain downloads and information never before seen, more beautiful than anything presently contained.

However, that said, it is an ongoing practice. Every day, new voices are presented to us, including our own, and that prevents access to the Silence and what I have come to Know as The Christ.

And I suppose that is the most difficult thing for people to achieve. We have to Love Truth more than anything. When we have that common Love of Truth, that is when We can be in relationship with The Christ. It's that Common Love that brings Us Together.

That said, many "voices" desire to get in the way of that Love.

Even our own family can get in the way.

>26 If any man come to me, and hate not his father, and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple. 27 And whosoever doth not bear his cross, and come after me, cannot be my disciple. -**Luke 14:26-27** from the Bible

This is very real - in my eyes, it doesn't mean we have to go out of our way and do anything we don't want to do. Not at all. We don't have to hurt others, we really don't. We just have to stop listening to those "outside" voices - that's all.

Sometimes that may require telling them to fuck off or go to hell or whatever. Sometimes, only in our own mind, other times, in real life. 

But it's not up to us what they choose to do with "their" life, it's only up to us to Love what We hold to be Real, Important, and Significant.

Again, The Christ will not require or ask that You do anything You do not want to do. He has no need for anything, and He has no desire to manipulate. Ideas contrary to that only exist in what is that of the Lie.