Two Sides - One Coin

This is kind of a difficult effect to describe. I personally believe it needs to be witnessed to be fully realize. The only way I know how to do is through my meditation of [[Harvesting Meditation|Harvesting]].

Often we exist in a double minded state. This results in a lack of clarity and direction. We are uncertain as to where we should go.

In the spiritual teachings, they talk about this duality taking place within each one us. We have attachments and aversions. We have desires and we have fears. We have what we want and we have what we do not want.

Every benefit carries with it a burden. And every burden brings forth a benefit. The cost and reward for each burden and benefit is personal preference. I would suggest that this also changes as we develop. 

What worked for us yesterday will not necessarily work for us today.

This is the nature of the path. The progression of the steps necessary to reach our ultimate destination.

However this internal conflict, often hidden, keeps us in a stagnant state. 

Analysis paralysis. 

Constantly thinking and feelings of uncertainty. 

This brings about hesitation, a stagnation, remaining unmoved.

When we look at our current goals, if we are not actively moving towards them, often it is because we have conflicting emotions.

Two conflicting goals or beliefs. 

Damned if we do, damned if we don't.

Catch 22.

We desire to go after our goal but we are afraid to go after our goal.

Sometimes this can be very real and conscious. Other times it is subtle and suppressed.

“What do I want?”

“What do I want to avoid?”

When we inquire within ourselves, often the answers to these questions can come into our awareness.

These answers will often be attached to emotions, some positive and some negative.

By integrating the two sides of this coin, one will no longer be hypnotized by smoke and mirrors of illusion. They then can simply step into the direction of what it is they most prefer.

>22 The light of the body is the eye: if therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light. 23 But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness! 24No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon.
>
>**Matthew 6:22-24** from the Bible

When the internal conflict is resolved. 

When the two become one. 

The tug of war is dissolved and true movement begins.