Evil and Demonic Oppression and Possession

This is quite an interesting concept and my ideas are merely speculative. I hold that uncertainty and doubt to be the highest virtue and as soon as we become absolutely certain in anything, we step off the path and quest towards Truth.

This is a very controversial topic, and I would hold that no one knows with absolute certainty, though they may believe such of this nature when it comes to evil and demonic oppression and possession.

Much literature has been written on this. I have also interacted with many individuals in my life who either have commented on the nature of this topic or seem to reflect or resemble being victims/vehicles within the scope of this topic.

First, we have to define what it is, which is quite difficult to do. 

I remember in my past, I had read the volumes of Franz Bardon, who was a Slavic magician during and around the time of WWII. In his text, he was a big proponent of reincarnation. What he suggested is that people could voluntarily choose to enter into a contractual agreement with an outside entity. 

He also explained that this was not a haphazard agreement; it was not and could not be done easily. Also, a certain level of Spiritual Maturity is needed to exist for the outside entity to even entertain the idea of entering into such an agreement.

This agreement would be an exchange of some sort. The entity would provide something in exchange for something from the participant. This agreement could and usually took place over the course of several lifetimes. 

According to Franz Bardon's text, when the "debt" was paid and nullified, there would then take place a great battle. Not in the physical plane, but in a higher plane. Though that higher plane could be witnessed in its on way, possibly, in the lower physical plane. 

This battle would be between the Spirit and this external entity. The Spirit, having paid its debt, wished to move towards an exit and thus freedom from this exchange. The entity, on the other hand, wished for a renegotiation, even more so now because the Spirit was much more powerful because of this process. 

During this battle there would exists a lot of friction, turmoil and stress. Hence, a great battle is and would take place.

How does this play out?

One conclusion is that the entity wishes to operate in the physical plane in some capacity, and the individual, more so the Spirit which operates within the individual, is to basically run errands and do things. That's one example.

Another example, which I think would be more prevalent, is the entity wishes for what we could call Loosh, this concept of energy, primarily negative energy. We could think of things like Fear, Toxic Guilt, Shame, and what have you. 

And because most people are operating from a perception of only the material existence, and on top of that, if we plug in the idea of reincarnation and having no memory of previous lifetimes, they then have no idea what is going on. 

It's completely unconscious, and they are blind and deaf to the nature of this "problem".

Different concepts exist in the idea of exorcisms and deliverance within primarily the schools of thought under the umbrella of mainstream Christianity. I don't doubt that these events could be real; however, from my logic, I would suggest that the individual under the thumb of the entity would not entertain the idea of an exorcism or deliverance until the "debt" has been paid. 

I could be wrong on that; I merely speculate that if this phenomenon is, in fact, real, that is how it would work. They wouldn't even entertain the idea, so the exorcism or deliverance is merely a symptom of them already going free in a higher plane.

There are of course many different cultures that describe these concepts in their own way, not just those existing within and under the umbrella of mainstream Christianity. I think of the shamanic cultures, the native American cultures, and on and on.

As I look out into those texts, which are more open to the idea of reincarnation, to me they make more sense.

I think of ideas like "Generational Curses", even so far as to how certain afflictions and diseases seem to process by the skipping of a generation. First generation has the problem, second does not, yet the third does, and so on.

Then, I looked into the world of dysfunctional families and how that carries out. Usually, the children of highly dysfunctional parents will choose with all their power not to be like their parents. However, often, that then creates another series of problems, merely the reverse polarity. 

Yin/Yang phenomenon.

I speculate that if this is, in fact, real, the idea that an entity is in an agreement with a Spirit in exchange for something, I'd suggest Loosh. I would then speculate that this entity could, in fact, have multiple agreements going on simultaneously, meaning multiple individuals/persons in which to operate from and with. This then goes into my theory of abusers and abused, users and used, and on and on. 

The possibility may very well exist that both parties are under the same primary influence - victim and victimizer.

I remember an interaction I had with an individual on this very topic many years ago. Their understanding was that this process was primarily used as a shortcut. Keep in mind that we are talking about something that exists in the Spiritual Plane, though it may be represented in the Physical Plane. Their understanding is that it was a shortcut in the process of evolution of the Spirit, however, a very unpleasant and difficult undertaking.

I'm reminded of a phrase that went something like this: "May you find enlightenment in one lifetime," which was to be seen as both a curse and a blessing.

Overall, I have many thoughts on this. I think of the power of [[Implied Consent]] which I believe to be very real. However, if this concept of possession and oppression is, in fact, real, would the individual be open to such ideas if they were not ready to move on? If the debt was not, in fact, paid, would they even be able to comprehend such a thing?

That I do not know, and personally, I have my doubts.

I speculate that if this is, in fact, real, which it may very well be, they would not even entertain the idea of implied consent and taking personal responsibility for what is going on within the scope of their life. 

Think of hardcore drug addicts and whatnot. Often, they cannot move into recovery at all, or begin to entertain the idea, until they hit what is called “Rock Bottom”. 

I look at certain behaviors, primarily criminal activity and addictions. I could speculate that much addiction is actually the byproduct or the symptom of such an agreement. Then I could look at things like criminal organizations; perhaps some if not many of them, are under such an agreement too. To further expand on this theory, I look at things like gang tattoos and even some individuals operating solo and their tattoos. 

I'm not suggesting that tattoos are always a sign of this going on or having been taken place, but I wonder if, "in some cases", it is. 

I often see how when an individual moves away from a certain type of lifestyle, they have a strong desire to remove their tattoos or black them out. 

What is this about? Then, even deeper, what motivated the individual to start their tattoos in the first place? And then if we examine the types of tattoos, what do they say, what do they represent? Why the attraction?

I've also heard of studies that suggest that people who have many tattoos are often plagued with high volumes of anxiety. Anxiety in my eyes would be a form of Loosh for the entity to feed off of.

In the end, this is all speculative, and I can't say with absolute certainty on the nature of this topic. However, I do find it interesting to entertain and to think about within itself. Yet, I am not willing to commit to any specific theory or model of understanding. I offer these ideas as mere entertainment. Discern and decide for yourself.