Yogis and Their Motivations

I've read a lot of books from people who follow various Yogi traditions and practices. Some of these are from India and other Eastern Cultures. Some more modern day from Western Cultures.

Living in a Western Culture, I've seen a fascination with these personalities, and I can too share that fascination.

However, from my observations and experiences, I see that more often than not, it appears that the overall majority are interested in these personalities and the topics they discuss and searching for improvement or an advantage to this existence. What I mean by that, is there exists a pull towards pleasure. 

"If I can only have this thing, this state of consciousness, this ability, then I will be happy." - I believe this is what is at the forefront of many of the minds who chase these ideals.

After reading many of these texts, books, and practices from many of the exceptional individuals who have participated and developed themselves and these skills, I'm under the strong assumption that their motivations were not actually pleasure, but to run away from pain.

And this can get pretty deep. 

From my observation, it's only when an individual hits rock bottom does the true motivation exists to rise above it. 

Pain and Pleasure often go together. We gain some Pleasure at the cost of Pain. 

The ratio, when there exists more Pleasure than Pain, it is seen as good and worthwhile.

Only when the Pain becomes exponentially greater than any Pleasure that can be received, does one have the push, and with that the motivation, to move beyond it.

As I have read many of these texts and stories, autobiographies, and whatnot, I'd suggest most of these individuals actually started in a state of what many would now refer to as mental illness. 

This anguish, this paranoia, this being manipulated from within, a constant state of angst. 

The inherent suffering and pain are what pushed them into these schools of thought, developing these different perspectives, creating, inventing, and practicing certain meditations or practices.

Basically, I've concluded that a lot of these practices were merely remedies to their internal problems. They weren't running towards something, instead they were running away from something.

Is this good or bad? 

A lot of good things can come out of bad situations, I think that is often the case for many. We have this experience that was difficult, but when we overcome it, and come out of it, we look back on it and are thankful.

This same phenomenon with the Yogis can be seen in other groups and motivations as well. I'd suggest that anyone who is beyond exceptional in anything, often their motivation was not to move into Pleasure, but to run away from Pain.

That's OK. I'm not saying that's a bad thing. I just merely want to express it and make it known.
